[[!tag DJ_Set]]
[[!meta title="VRChat DJs United x EVA DIMENSIONAL COLLAPSE"]]

[ [Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/i7vGk5dUW7c) / [[!myipfs QmbdhRkpqvqyCNToxzRbw1PTqommPDNxzbTt9SNkMW2PNj desc="Download raw from IPFS"]] ]

January 8, 2021

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidwbuexmdgf2rfnlbkqodz6iuxki6jlb555fgoxte466arfltv4im" size=medium]]
</figure>

DIMENSIONAL COLLAPSE was a party in VRChat organized by DJ's United and
featuring collaboration with EVA Online to celebrate the release of [R O C K Y's
Euphoria EP](https://soundcloud.com/rockymusic339/sets/euphoria-ep). This was
by far the longest time I'd ever spent consecutively in VR, by the end of it
we'd been talking and dancing and playing music for something like 7 hours. My
trackers died twice and my headset and right controller were nearly dead at the
end but it was an extremely fun night.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiesxdzkk7kdwgvcvcqqzyevomwgw6kknm7ebzrzhoc7blmxpllhpe" size=medium]]
</figure>

I'd like to do VR events / crossovers like this more often. The nice thing about
games like VRChat or Garry's Mod is that you can play them with a headset or
just on keyboard, there were plenty of people that night doing either. Just
having everyone in the same "virtual" room creates such a warm and close
atmosphere despite being maybe thousands of miles away from many of the people
there. There's feeling of closeness, especially in VR where you can see
everyone's body language, that makes experiences like this very special to me.

1. Zeds Dead - Nostalgia
2. Tessela - Let Up
3. Kode 9 - Uh
4. Lone - Dragonrush
5. Geoxor - Moneko
6. Marina and the Diamonds - Lies (Zeds Dead Remix)
7. kittynxc - T3LL U
8. JOYRIDE - On Fire
9. Machinedrum and Holly - Berry Patch
10. Special Request - Fett
11. Sully - Swandive
12. DMVU - Bloccd
13. Silkie - Limits
14. Shandy Kubota - Spin Out (aran Remix)
15. ♥ GOJII ♥ - SPELLBOUND
16. S3RL & Filthy Frank - Dumbass Statuses
17. Manian - Hold Me Tonight (Nightcore Edit)
18. Wildstylez and Sound Run ft. Ruby Prophet - Untamable (Tweekacore Remix)
19. Hommarju - Reboot
20. LektriQue, Mightnight CVLT - Full Throttle
21. Proxy & Autodidakt - Action Jackson
22. Teddyloid - Jumping Mole (Nerdcore Switch)
23. Manga & Dta - Riddim
24. SHOCKONE - Follow Me
25. Skepsis - Goes Like (The Prototypes Remix)
26. Current Value - That Smile
27. Metrik - Hackers
28. GRRL - Rally
29. Netsky, Urbandawn - Power
30. S3RL - 9 Bars of Ecuador
31. Rawtek & Bellorum - Money Call
32. ALRT & Callum Higby - Feel My NRG
33. Radical Redemption & Nonsens - Beat Hotel
34. The Avalanches - Interstellar Love
