[[!tag DJ_Set]]
[[!meta title="EVA Online Presents: Synesthesia: #009"]]

[ [Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/gEpmLXdssUA) / [[!myipfs QmbGBHPH2dj8Aa2DcAt9YTKuDP7ewL7hNt1vfdbtTToJ47 desc="Download raw from IPFS"]] ]

March 26, 2021

I did this set entirely in VR and never took my HMD off for any bit of it. The
game may look like VRChat but it's actually Garry's Mod with VRMod, which gives
this 15+ year-old game VR support. I wrote a gamemode called
[STREAMSTAGE](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2067726690)
to accomodate streaming audio to all users in the server so every in the club
experiences the music together.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigrcbz3vbyicly7xoqfpvacvhdnoxabusqkpcdd3cipb2bjnoryle" size=medium]]
</figure>

Unlike my previous Streamstage events, this time I taped a GoPro to my head and
fed the video stream into my HMD. Doing so I was able to coordinate my hand
movements to control the DJ controller on the piano stand in front of me. You
can see the exact feed from the GoPro in the upper right hand corner of the
video screen. The orange-y color is from an OBS filter I applied to it but
that's exactly what I saw in the Quest. It was a little difficult to check my
phone (for instance) but it all worked well in the end.  This creates a fairly
seamless AR / VR DJ experience, assuming you have enough USB ports to do all
this bullshit.

The Mixxx feed (the DJ software I use) also was piped into the headset so I
could select and cue tracks in real time. Any time you see me stare into the
middle-distance or a little above my controller during the set I'm cueing the
next track or checking audio levels. Instead of Quest audio (which can be
nightmarish sometimes) I plugged a pair of headphones into the 3.5mm jack on the
front of my computer and used those as my cues, while my room speakers
(connected to a USB audio interface coming from the PC) played the game audio
which was captured in the final render. This eliminated the latency problems
I've experienced in previous sets, and let me move in-time with what everyone in
the server (and everyone in the stream) saw!

I'm so glad we had a bunch of people log on to the GMod server! I honestly
didn't expect so many friends in game, since this was part of a bigger event
which mostly played out on Twitch.

1. SHSTR - Exodus
2. Moris Blak - Hereditary
3. Unholy - Ego Sum Deus
4. CABLE x F?THR - ANGEL TEETH
5. Garçons - Tartarus
6. Gesaffelstein - Zzafrika (Gesaffelstein Rmx)
7. GasteL - Rene
8. Pedestrian Tactics - Kernel Panic
9. JOYRYDE - IM GONE
10. Masayoshi Iimori - Flow
11. Expulze - Mind Control (Original Mix)
12. DJ Sharpnel - TOKI-MEKI GABBAREAL (tanigon)
13. Boy 8-Bit - Fogbank
14. Apashe;INSTASAMKA - Uebok (feat. Instasamka) (Russian Jump Up Mafia)
15. Trance Generator - Chaos (The Yofridiz Remix)
16. S3RL - Doof Doof Untz Untz (Weaver Remix)
17. Shaun Baker/Seaside Clubbers - DUP DUP (Danceboy German Remix)
18. East Clubbers - East Clubbers - Drop
19. MALIXE - All Is None
20. Nhato - Forbidden Souls
21. Shifter Feat. S3RL - Hardcore Is The Place
22. SHSTR - Destroy The Creator
23. Minamotoya - Alpenglow
