I've enjoyed coffee since I was 15 or so. When I'd visit my Godmother she had
this neat single-serve Keurig machine where you'd pop a plastic cup of coffee
grounds in, fill the reservoir with water and in less than a minute you'd have a
mug full of hot coffee. The taste was not the best but it was extremely
convenient.

A few years later during a trip across the US with my family, a 16oz americano
became my regular order anytime we stopped at a coffee house. It's not always a
spectacular taste as it's simply an espresso cut with water. The only
interesting variation in this drink is in how much water is used to pull the
espresso shot. With a *lungo* the shot is pulled with about twice as much water
as a typical espresso shot. This extracts a wider band of flavors from the
grounds as it takes more time to pull a *lungo* than a standard espresso. The
counterpart of a *lungo* is a *ristretto* which uses about half the water,
producing a more "concentrated" flavor profile.

Coffee Houses on the West Coast
-------------------------------

A lot of my family lives in the Pacific Northwest, in and around Washington so
from time-to-time I find myself visiting the area. It's really beautiful,
especially Oregon with its large forests and perpetual fog near the coast. I've
always found it interesting that there are so many drive-thru coffee houses
there, it's not something I see on the East coast often. These shops are
drive-thru only and seem to bring in a fair number of people as they're always
quite busy. The buildings are very tiny and maybe two or three people work there
at a time. I think that I'd start up a company like this on the East coast if I
really found the urge to start a business venture.

On-campus
---------

In my time on-campus during university (and especially near the due-dates for
term papers or projects) I'd camp near one of the many Port City Java coffee
bars and slug my americano while churning out code or proofs. As expected of a
coffee shop on a college campus every one was perpetually busy but the crowd
did fluctuate some when nearby lectures ended. These shops stayed open quite
late too, so if I ever needed a bit of energy in the later afternoon I knew
where to go. Not just on weekdays but weekends too they were open.

As part of the on-campus dining plan students were allocated a number of "meal
swipes" for the week which, given that they were lumped in with tuition costs
and therefore covered by grants or loans, were essentially free and you were
just missing out if you did not maximize the week's meal swipes. In my first and
second year when I lived on-campus and enjoyed this perk I'd always fill out my
weekly allocation with a visit to the coffee shop, often grabbing a muffin or
coffee cake too since the swipe was good for up to $7.50.

Abroad in Tōkyō
---------------

I drank a good deal of coffee abroad in Japan as well. Though there were not
many "regular" coffee shops on the [[School/Sophia_University]] campus there
were plenty of vending machines selling all kinds of coffee. From hot
(あったか～い) to chilled (つめた～い) coffee, these machines had at least 5
different brands of coffee to choose from. Often for a mere 110円 you could have
a hot can of the world's finest BOSS coffee, so hot that is actually scalding
your hand. I found it necessary many times to stick the can in my hoodie pocket
right after buying it from the machine because the can felt like it was giving
me third-degree burns just by holding it.

Not just black coffee, but coffee au lait you could also buy from these
machines, equally hot or chilled. Steel cans are truly amazing and it's a shame
we cannot have the same in the US, or really anywhere else in the world. The
coffee either comes as a pop-tab can or twist-top steel bottles.

You can also buy many of these brands of canned coffee at a convenience store,
which there is equally no shortage of in Tōkyō.

In addition to vending machines and convenience stores, I also found a number of
shops dedicated to coffee. I often visited the Starbucks just north of my
neighborhood in Sensō-ji, which is a very popular tourist destination for
Japanese and internationals alike. This made for a very entertaining coffee shop
experience, as often I'd find myself in line with other Americans who (I guess)
found the Starbucks to be the closest thing to a slice-of-home so many miles
away. This place was always packed, but I sometimes was able to find a seat
inside and knock out some homework while I sipped my americano.

In 2018 smoking was still permitted in restaurants in Tōkyō, albeit in a
closed-off separate "smoking" section redolent of when I was much younger and
restaurants would ask my parents if they'd "like a smoking or non-smoking seat".
This made the atmospheres in many restaurants, especially coffee shops, hazy and
foreign to me. Even the Mos Burger, a burger shop which puts a focus on their
coffee too, had a smoking section at the time. This has since changed, I
believe, and was codified in one of the many laws introduced ahead of the Tōkyō
Olympics.

At Home
-------

Boredom one Summer led me to accepting a job in a local coffee house in August
2019. While it was fun going to school and working at the same time, I often
felt that working in this capacity was a distraction from what I could be doing
instead. Work began piling up for my senior design project and frequently I was
getting less and less sleep since I needed to be at work often at 6AM. This
became too much to handle and in November that year I threw in the towel to
instead focus on school and on my graduation the next semester.

My time working there was pleasant, though. The atmosphere, busy at times, was
refreshing and brand-new to me. The shop was one of the only two coffee shops
carrying the name. Neither of these stores could accommodate a drive-through so
all our business was done with foot traffic. This meant that on rainy days,
especially days where the seasonal hurricanes made landfall somewhere on the
Eastern seaboard, almost no-one came in. These days were the best and the
laziest. Sometimes I'd clean the same counter 10 times in an afternoon without
ever seeing anyone use it. Being bored, as one of my (Idaho-native) professors
at [[School/Sophia_University]] put it, is something we've forgotten how to do.

Boredom, it seemed, was the background noise for children of an earlier age,
before there was any internet or broadcast TV as we know it now. Boredom, it
seemed, was integral to that time, when one could sit outside and watch the
trees bend with the blowing of the hot summer wind, or watch cars scuttle by on
their way to something far removed from this lazy existence. This is the boredom
I felt wiping down these counters and tables and chairs.

One other thing: the shop has no way to track orders save for a pad of sticky
notes. For this reason there is a lexicon of short-hand you must learn for
writing down orders quickly and concisely. This helps especially in the mornings
when people rush in and out of the doors so quickly. It could be stressful
sometimes but at the end of the day I felt satisfied.

The pay was awful though and I made more doing less as a government employee
than I ever made at that coffee shop.

It was around this time I began brewing drip coffee at home instead of using my
percolator. The taste is much fuller because of the control one can exert over
the different variables of brewing: water temperature, saturation, drip
intensity, aeration, etc. Today it is the only kind of coffee I will make.
