Hi, my name is Wesley Coakley (🇯🇵  コークリー・ウェズリー) ☆ﾐ(o\*･ω･)ﾉ
On the Internet and in the crypto-space I use the handle **w!HAXU9fXGtc** because it
sounds cooler.

I am a core developer on [Levana Protocol](https://levana.finance) and a
graduate of [[School/North_Carolina_State_University]] with a B.S. in Computer
Engineering and another B.S. in Electrical Engineering. I also accidentally
took enough courses during my college tenure to collect my minor in mathematics
on the way out the door.

I work with [[Digital_Money]] and I believe that all currency will eventually be
stored on a blockchain. I began my career as a Software Engineer in NVIDIA's
[Networking Business Unit](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/networking/) (NBU) but
quickly found a home developing financial tools for the [Digital_Money/Terra]]
blockchain.

Learning
--------

I am intermediately fluent in [[Japanese]] (I can speak / read / write well but
many technical things are still are over my head) and have studied at
[[School/Sophia_University]] in Tōkyō, Japan; I study some every day and hope to
pass JLPT-N1 as soon as I am allowed to take the exam. I really, really enjoy
learning and this is one of several outlets for me to express this passion.

I like to read a ton too. I love reading technical literature because it expands
my depth of knowledge and can improve my problem-solving ability. I also like
reading 19th century philosophy and [post]modernist literature. There is a very
wide breadth of things which interest me and often I will enter into new topics
by researching, reading and marking up books that touch on these ideas. I prefer
physical books to digital ones because (1) I have trouble focusing on a screen
for long periods of time and (2) it is much easier to write in a book than to
take notes in a PDF.

Interests
---------

I love to design and organize systems. I've found that throughout the software
(and hardware) spheres, I enjoy working on anything with a sizable problem
statement. Though I *can* bear down and churn out the minute details of a
particular element in a certain project, switching between these two worlds of
"design" and "detailed implementation" is difficult and counterproductive, and
since I am most comfortable being a systems architect in that sense, I have come
to appreciate and enjoy the long and sweeping tasks demanded by design on a
large scale. Sometimes I will design things I have no intention of implementing
or even time to consider implementing, and that's okay, because this process
occassionally produces schematics for something I become obsessively and
absolutely in love with. At that point I'll pour in all the time I can afford
into the project.

I also enjoy performing the regular and specialty maintainance on both of my
cars: my [['97 BMW 318ti|BMW_318ti]] and my [[2003 Honda Accord||Honda_Accord]].
I learned exclusively from car enthusiast forums / mailing lists on the oldest corners of the
Internet. The posted advice is mostly not useful but the 1000+ page manuals
hosted on these car forums were invaluable to me, especially when I only had a
limited understanding of how cars operated under the hood originally.

Favorite Things
---------------

These are more minor things than the above but they are still very important to
me:

- Playing games in [[Virtual_Reality]]
- Drinking and making [[Coffee]]
- [[Cooking]], both for myself and with my fiancé
