[[wesl.ee|index]] is my personal wiki; it is similar to a blog but there is no
focus on the chronology of the things I write; instead the site is organized by
the connections and links between different ideas. The site is generated from
plaintext files using [[!iki ikiwiki]] as a static-site generator. The text
files are [available](https://github.com/wesl-ee/personal-wiki) and are
versioned as a git repository though it's more pleasant to read the rendered
HTML than the plaintext files themselves. I promise that you're not missing
anything.

In addition to being the title of this site [[wesl-ee|Me]] is also a name I use
as a handle on the Internet. I'm not anon but I like the handle better.

Site Hosting / Decentralization
-------------------------------

I host the canonical version of this site, [https://wesl.ee](https://wesl.ee),
on a rented VPS that I originally only hosted a Garry's Mod server on. Before
it was uploaded to the VPS the site ran on a self-hosted server which I operated
on my home connection.

As a decentralized alternative to accessing the site from my VPS an exact copy
of the site is also uploaded to IPFS whenever I make any changes. It is
available at
[[!ipns k2k4r8mboahxabdczxp817ktff8blpdo6z32kjw5qjuvlc9c56tjbr9m]]
Make sure you use an add-on like [IPFS
companion](https://docs.ipfs.io/install/ipfs-companion/) if you want to view the
IPFS site in your browser. I have a few servers that ensure the wiki is pinned and always
available, though it should theoretically be available as long as people are
accessing it.

Finally if you're not keen on remembering that long IPNS URL I've reserved the
[wesl-ee.eth](http://wesl-ee.eth.link) name on the Ethereum Name Service; that
name points to this same content on IPFS, only the wesl-ee.eth name is far
easier to remember. I have this .eth domain name reserved until 2032 so you
should have plenty of time to browse through the wiki (⌒▽⌒)☆

