[[!tag DJ_Set]]
[[!meta title="DECENNIUM 202X: New Year's Eve Event"]]

[ [[!myipfs QmQZv6Tb4H5PMscwa6JCSZsaaAvhoLUmEfVjBVychXyyQ7 desc="Download raw from IPFS"]] ]

January 1, 2020

My setup involved three computers, five instances of `ffmpeg`, one
webcamera, one webserver, and 40GiB of RAM! It's really amazing that all
these things came together to create one continuous experiece; it's this
feeling that's kept me motivated in my experimentation with audio/visual
experiences overall.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifqgqa6xkkmzkdkdnwokcjh3bi77tbbhgvqqf6d63ygmuoaa552lq" size=medium]]
</figure>

It was a super fun night! We started a little later than expected but once
we got started the party went off without a hitch... it was my boyfriend's
(DJ_ABF's) first time DJ'ing and I'm glad he had fun too. The entirety of
the show was streamed on my Twitch channel as well. This show was super special
to me because it was (1) my last show of 2019 and (2) the first show of my last
year of college; I hope everyone at the party and everyone watching the
recording (past, present, future) has as much fun as I did! The audicence was
generally invited from a unviersity imageboard I run but far more people came
out than I expected; especially since this was Winter break I didn't expect so
many people to show up in real-life! Because this event was a blending of
Internet neo-rave culture and my IRL friends I was surprised when we had an
exceptional audience both online and in-person.

The night was divided into **ZONES**, which resemble the Zone Races from
WipEout HD:

**ZONE VENOM** (*DJ_ABF*) (Pop, Big Room, House, Indie)

DJ_ABF opened the night with an accessible amount of pop and indie hits from
the past decade (2010's); unfortunately there is no recording of his set but
his tracklist is published below:

1. Childish Gambino - Retro [ROUGH]
2. Lil Wayne;Swizz Beatz - Uproar
3. Joyner Lucas - I Love (Explicit)
4. New Legends - kFle9pGCtU0
5. Jungle - Heavy, California
6. Two Feet - I Feel Like I'm Drowning
7. Tame Impala - The Less I Know the Better
8. Oceans - 7h3Pd5SbCRI
9. slenderbodies - king
10. James Arthur - You Deserve Better
11. Ed Sheeran feat. Paulo Londra & Dave - Nothing On You
12. The Chainsmokers, Amy Shark - The Reaper
13. LSD - Genius
14. Saint Laurent - WT WJDPfurc
15. Alec Benjamin - Mind Is A Prison
16. Harry Styles - Watermelon sugar

**ZONE PHANTOM** (*BUSHMASTER*) (Big beat, House, Nu-funk, Acid House)

BUSHMASTER played next, generating **ZONE PHANTOM** in the process; his set
consisted of DDR-inspired nu-funk and fighting-game OST hits; it was a
well-mixed and well-balanced set; I especially enjoy BUSHMASTER's taste for
early-2000's esthetic; that much is evident in the visuals (slow-scrolling
text and harsh contrasts) for his set as well as in his music; below is his
(unordered) set list:

1. Concept of Love Intro by Stuff3
2. Michael Gray - The Weekend (Original 12 Inch Mix)
3. Daft Punk - Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger
4. Dirty Vegas - Days Go By
5. The Superman Lovers - Starlight
6. Debbie Malone - Rescue Me (Original Version)
7. Eric Prydz - Call On Me (Radio Edit)
8. Space Cube - Session
9. Justice - D.A.N.C.E.
10. Skylar Spence - Can't You See
11. 奥河英樹 - Makoto Stage ~ Spunky
12. 奥河英樹 - Elena Stage ~ Beats in My Head (Tribal Dance)
13. Hideki Naganuma - AIN'T NOTHIN' LIKE A FUNKY BEAT
14. TeddyLoid - Fly Away (Taku & TeddyLoid For the Club Edit)
15. Capcom Vs. SNK 2 - This is True Love Makin' (London)
16. Justice - DVNO
17. Hideki Naganuma - Let Mom Sleep
18. Hideki Naganuma - Teknopathetic
19. Nookie - Give A Little Love ('94 Lick)
20. Duck Sauce - Barbara Streisand (Original Mix)
21. FatBoy Slim - Wonderful night (album mix)
22. The immortals - Techno syndrome 7
23. Daft Punk - Da Funk
24. Mr. Oizo - Gay Dentists
25. Daft Punk - Indo Silver Club
26. Ark - punkadelik (mr oizo rmx)
27. Alan Braxe & Fred Falke - Intro (Original Club Mix)
28. Buffalo Bunch - T.I.T.T.S. - Take It To The Streets
29. The Chemical Brothers - Block Rockin' Beats
30. Play Paul - Holy Ghostz
31. Joga - Dam Dariram
32. Le Knight Club - Nymphae Song
33. Dance Dance Revolution - OKUYATOS - Kind Lady (Funk Disco Extended Mix)
34. Detroit Swindle - The Break Up (Original Mix)
35. Afro Medusa - Pasilda (Knee Deep Club Mix)
36. Soul Providers - Rise (Bini And Martini Mix)
37. Dizzee Rascal - Bassline Junkie
38. Daft Punk - Something About Us
39. Madeon - No Fear No More
40. Stardust - Music Sounds Better With You (12' club mix)

**ZONE ZEN** (*DJR3*) (French House, Synthpop, Future)

I went on next after a short intermission; I split my set in half according
to taste; this first half was focused on upbeat pop and future-sounding
music! My chief inspiration for this half of the set was WipEout HD;
everything I picked out here sounded like it could've been a piece of the
original soundtrack for that game; it is an extremely inspirational game for
me and I think that much is evident in my visuals and my music. Below is my
full set list for **ZONE ZEN**:

1. Cola Splash - Curry Drinker
2. Yuzo Koshiro - Overdrive Neurotransmitters
3. Lolica Tonica - Make me Feel
4. THOMAS BANGALTER & DJ FALCON - CALL ON ME (Muttonheads fine touch remix)
5. Yelle - Moteur action
6. The Touch - Le Night Dominator (Radio Edit)
7. Nightcore  - Rasputin (Remix)
8. M_Ferri - Arturia (Boris Brejcha Remix)
9. Justice - Waters of Nazareth
10. Yelle - Que Veux-Tu (Madeon Remix)
11. Perfume - Spring of Life (Album-mix)
12. Kyary Pamyu Pamyu - チェリーボンボン extended
13. Surkin - Love Shot (Djedjotronic & Noob Remix)
14. Joujouka - Rock Is Sponge <area04>
15. Captain Jack - Dream A Dream
16. Adam Freeland - Fear <Rez edit> <area05>
17. Ekowraith - Waiting For Tonight (Club Mix)
18. Dopamine - Flat Out
19. Locked in the bathroom (Deus Ex)
20. Proxy - Decoy
21. Surkin - Lose Yourself feat. Ann Saunderson (Brodinski Remix)
22. Yuzo Koshiro - Acid Runner
23. Hydelic - butterfly effect
24. onoken - shylph
25. Alice DeeJay - Better Off Alone 2008 (C o O k ! e Remix)
26. Yuzo Koshiro - Entry (Maxi2 Version)
27. Virtual Self - Particle Arts

**ZONE SUPERZEN** (*DJR3*) (Neo-rave, Dark Techno)

Next I transition into **ZONE SUPERZEN**; this zone is meant to be the
harsher, neo-rave side of **ZONE ZEN**; the upbeat kick-and-snares of the
former set are replaced with harsh synths and Roland 303 bass lines; I
accompany the change of tone with a visual alteration, swapping out the
bright color palette of the former ZONE with dark blacks and harsh reds
which mirror the music I planned for **ZONE SUPERZEN**; below is the set
list for that ZONE:

28. Serial Experiments Lain - Cables and powerlines and electricity poles compilation
29. Gesaffelstein - Trans
30. 牛尾憲輔 - E
31. Unknown Artist - Untitled (Kalli's Freezing Cold Confused Yoghurt Mix)
32. Sasha - Goteki 45
33. [ETC] MAGIA - Mindfuck Remix
34. TaQ - stoic (EXTREME version)
35. NOMA - Brain Power
36. DJ Noriken - Summerlights(IIDX Edition)
37. Rockefeller Street (EightOEight Hardstyle Remix)
38. Treow, NaturaLe & Aruko - selFa
39. 180 - PARANOiA (kskst mix)
40. Simon C - Fuck You
41. Creasemaster & Slamdog - Bump The Bass
42. Kenta Nagata - Half Pipe
43. Wan Bushi - Eurodance Vibes Part 5
44. Ω - MAX 300
45. The legend Of Max - 27 The legend Of Max
46. kamome sano - take it higher
47. 牛尾憲輔 - Descent To Grey
48. Aya London - Fly Me to the Moon -Beat- [TV Size]
