[[!tag DJ_Set]]

[ [[!myipfs QmPpD7uLEDK7z3DUGCKNSqoaFGK1vrFKQFriYTLo1pgunT desc="Download raw from IPFS"]] ]

November 23, 2019

This may be the most fun I've ever had putting together a show; we had decided
that BUSHMASTER would open and DJR3 would go on right after; this was the second
time I organized / played a set with an opener, the first being Howlerween. I
advertised the party on my website and ~20 people showed overall; I was
super-excited to see everyone!

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifajnshvcx737wxzcffdrbnni24wqiw3w5hb6ughwcilcfl4con5m" size=medium]]
</figure>

The entire SUBSYSTEM20XX experience (i.e. both DJ sets) was livestreamed to
Twitch.tv on [my channel there](https://twitch.tv/DJRThree). Despite being my
first time livestreaming an event I think I ran it well; I used two IP cameras
to feed an OBS setup running on a server in my closet; that feed was then
encoded and sent to the Twitch servers to be broadcast in real-time. I hope to
do more streams like this soon.

### BUSHMASTER (8PM)

BUSHMASTER opened the night with a fun run of breakbeat, acid house, and
neo-funk. Here's his setlist (not ordered):

01. Fatboy Slim - Right Here, Right Now
02. Fatboy Slim - The Rockafeller Skank
03. The Chemical Brothers - Setting Sun
04. The Prodigy - Smack My Bitch Up
05. Bald Terror - Drummachine
06. Fatboy Slim - Acid 8000
07. The Prodigy - Voodoo People
08. Yugo Kanno - il vento d'oro
09. Commix - Be True
10. Fatboy Slim Vs Bassbin Twins - Aaaaw Shut Up
11. FatBoy Slim - Big Beat Souffle
12. Fatboy Slim - Everybody Needs A 303
13. The Prodigy - Timebomb Zone
14. Dawl - Let's Go
15. Fatboy Slim - Love Island
16. L.E.D.LIGHT-G - HELL SCAPER (Long version)
17. Fatboy Slim - Ya Mama
18. Mr.Oizo - Flat Beat
19. Chosen Few - Name Of The DJ
20. Nookie - Give A Little Love ('94 Lick)
21. j^p^n - amend. []
22. Agent Sumo - Aint Got Time To
23. Backdraft - Headcharge (original mix)
24. Chosen Few - Name Of The DJ
25. Various Artists - Underworld - Born Slippy

### DJR3 (8:45PM)

I went on around 8:45PM, playing a DJ set consisting of deep house, trance, and
neo-rave; here's my setlist (in order):

01. 奥河英樹 - Now, Fight a New Rival!
02. Gesaffelstein - Trans
03. Deapmash - Halcyon (VIP mix)
04. MPIA3 - Acid Badger
05. The Black Dog - Heavy Industry (Shifted Remix)
06. TaQ - Digital MinD (AT Libra mix)
07. The Black Dog - Black Chamber Order (Blawan Remix)
08. tiger YAMATO - R3
09. TaQ - DXY!
10. Counsel pop - jd sports
11. Kai Tracid - Skywalker
12. Dwig - Rise
13. Daft Punk - Rollin' & Scratchin'
14. Daft Punk - Oh Yeah
15. Sasha - FEISAR
16. zodiak commune - ZC 006 Mig - Passing Io A - Passing Io
17. 180 - PARANOiA (kskst mix)
18. G Jones - Drift (Acid Mix)
19. System Shock - Bizzy Time
20. NAOKI underground - INSERTiON
21. Parallax - b Transcendental
22. The Source Experience - Intruder
23. The Speed Freak - 06 - Kung-Fu(ck You ! - I'll Use My Sword)
24. 竹本晃 - track44
25. ABLK - Acid Starter Pack
26. Virtual Self - EON BREAK
27. d-complex - ECSTASY
28. The Infinity Project - Hyperspaced (Doof Remix)
29. USAO - Outbreak
30. 竹本晃 - サイベリアテクスチュア5a
31. onoken - shylph
32. Masashi Hamauzu - FINAL FANTASY XIII - The Promise ~ The Sunleth Waterscape
33. Aya London - Fly Me to the Moon -Beat- [TV Size]
34. MOGUAI - ACIIID (Kryder X Benny Benassi Remix)
35. Ryu - Be quiet
36. zodiak commune - ZC 001 Acid Basztard-Kompressor EP A2 - Atomzeit-'98
37. Wan Bushi - 02 Samurai Dance
38. OutPhase - sync
39. onoken - felys
40. Creasemaster & Slamdog - Bump The Bass
41. The Prophet - Big Boys Don't Cry (Rave Mix)
42. Virtual Self - Ghost Voices (djX edit)
43. Dj Psycangle - Smile, Fuck Up (Wan Bushi Remix)
