[[!tag DJ_Set]]

[ [Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/y-xIyCoIqlQ?si=xBkkUl8Jk0ldFH9b) / [Download from HooYa!](https://hooya.wesl.ee/cid/bafkreiambgwnqygtlf5s3ojo47sfxs7cryjlfu5ofcvdyw3am7gqrvr2rq) ]

November 8, 2025

Millennium Strike hosted two IRL events in Texas in 2025, one in Austin and one
in San Antonio. I had the fortune of playing the one in San Antonio. My last IRL
Millennium Strike event was a B2B at a 2023
[[DJR3/2023/Millennium_Strike_Prologue]] in Chicago. Earlier in 2025 I played
[[DJR3/2025/Millennium_Strike_Episode_17]].

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidbnsct64uv27xy2fccq25cspbqjhvqcfttvjrlpgxjvxcuvbtk2q" size=medium]]
</figure><figure class="image-square">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifoxz3qeerdve4rqgciq3u6oegyu2ml4zjzvan5izqsmsmofjbveu" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifoyueijm4dm4ccc5myrpvu7hzxaeqjstusdgelhl4wkswbr7bldm" size=medium]]
</figure>

Both days in Texas were awesome. I flew down for the weekend and went from
Austin to San Antonio to Houston where I stayed until I left on Tuesday, a
holiday. The [[!wikipedia 2025_United_States_federal_government_shutdown]] was
nearing its 6th week when we were slated to travel and that fact added some
stress to the trip, but the shutdown ended on the exact day we left. Honestly
traveling during that time was not much different from any other time. Maybe
people avoided airports because they knew ATC people were not being paid. It all
comes out in the wash anyhow; we made it to Texas in one piece.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihnrobwzdugmsb3yowclthxurqf76zcwoezdakghwg7lqthjqfsbe" size=medium]]
</figure>

I brought 18 t-shirts with me in a Patagonia bag to sell for the event and I
sold out completely. That was really cool! I cut and pressed each of the shirts
myself in my kitchen a few days prior. You can see them on the [Hikari Research
site](https://shop.hikariresearch.org/product/millennium-strike-live-shirt)
(sold out). Here's a look at the back of the shirt:

<figure class="image-square">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihqsvxvtdpcqpstz4xme7mmdrf4dcophp4ywhpytvnlatrt7jfptu" size=medium]]
</figure>

On the San Antontio day I immersed myself in WipeOut 64 on the N64 console that
was set out. After I was charmed, I stood up and played my music and sat back
down to run the track back.

Catch the set either on
[YouTube](https://youtu.be/y-xIyCoIqlQ?si=xBkkUl8Jk0ldFH9b) or [download it from
HooYa!](https://hooya.wesl.ee/cid/bafkreiambgwnqygtlf5s3ojo47sfxs7cryjlfu5ofcvdyw3am7gqrvr2rq).

1. Taishi - Cynthia
2. TORI NO UTA (DATABASS REWORK)
3. woodgraves - Gestalt
4. Nhato - Voices
5. yyuni & Aekae - Digital Eternity
6. XEDRA - HEARTBEAT
7. Shstr - Statue
8. Malixe - Distortion Noise
9. LOLISTYLE GABBERS - CODE:015 (WW05 Ver)
10. Current Value - That Smile
11. kosu - eternal
12. Go-qualia - Fin.
13. XEDRA - AL FINAL
14. sanmal - ソーラー(feat Kasane Teto)
15. Type R - Myria Exaxis
16. ZULI - Trigger Finger
17. NEUROLINK - Aeon Genesis
18. 3x6 ーThe Accelerator
19. RamonPang - Tidal MypulseEXTREME
20. Current Value - Footwork
21. HelloWorld - Voices (with Pauline Herr)
22. PSYQUI - Still in my heart
23. GOLIN - SUKI SUGI REPLAY ♡ (DJ PUPPYLUV NXC EDIT)
24. gasoiid - 💧
25. Oolacile - Bathtub Marlboro
26. nuphory - HYPERTRANCE

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3m7kd5rlics27"]]
