[[!tag DJ_Set]]
[[!meta title="Moonlight's House Party"]]

[ [Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/uBhDtq5xWBE) / [[!myipfs QmPXxmqRkW91Dh61JugAczp3LAhAcJvobKEPpFkhWgxZZs desc="Download from IPFS"]] ]

June 28, 2025

B2B with Bushmaster with whom I've DJ'd [[since the very
beginning|DJR3/2019/SUBSYSTEM_20XX]]. We've grown a lot since then. In a lot of
different ways. Last recorded B2B we did was exactly this time last year at the
[[2024 Moonlight House Party|DJR3/2024/Moonlight_House_Party]]. In between then
and here we played a small house party. Ain't no thing!

The video of this set which I [[!myipfs
QmPXxmqRkW91Dh61JugAczp3LAhAcJvobKEPpFkhWgxZZs desc="posted to IPFS"]] is much
higher quality than the one I uploaded to YouTube because Google compresses
videos to hell. Duh! Soon, in addition to IPFS, I can offer sets directly on
[[HooYa]]. Soon...

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigdakpdvuzjufakhetntzdx5fvo4tjnlofvxcvcso65ekqy6yzkgi" size=medium]]
<div><video autoplay muted loop controls>
<source src="https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreihq2mxbzmwxospvsbzeeg3kylbjqynu5eqbwuv7nlj5ii755zon64">
</video></div>
</figure>

Colors below correspond to who is playing what track. But they tend to bleed
together in the video. I'm not really sure anymore.

<ol>
  <li style="color:#f0f">Aekae — Endless Skies</li>
  <li style="color:#f0f">nuphory — Leave The World Behind feat. Luna Lenta</li>
  <li style="color:#f9a100">Nhato — Voices</li>
  <li style="color:#f9a100">SubLab — Hyper Focus</li>
  <li style="color:#d11da2">nuphory — Andromeda </li>
  <li style="color:#b23ba4">Heimanu — Atrea (Former Hero Remix)</li>
  <li style="color:#9368a5">ident — burning, alive (Katzhu Remix)</li>
  <li style="color:#7484a7">nuphory — HYPERTRANCE/ETERNAL SPRING</li>
  <li style="color:#559fa8">nuphory - TECHNOID99 </li>
  <li style="color:#36bba9">Dog Blood — KOKOE (with Otira)</li>
  <li style="color:#17d8aa">leroy — BACK DOOR EXIT ---- IVE got a cr*sh on you</li>
  <li style="color:#00e08e">Stessie & Volant — star anthem 2005 </li>
  <li style="color:#33c46b">tenshi — Y2KVOID</li>
  <li style="color:#669849">XX92 — Take Me Away</li>
  <li style="color:#996b26">Disaffected — A-Trak — Heads Will Roll Remix (Disaffected Bootleg)</li>
  <li style="color:#cc3f04">nuphory — CALLING</li>
  <li style="color:#f9a100">Volant & Integra — Reality</li>
</ol>

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lucuonvvqk2s"]]
