[[!tag Personal_Device]]

This Pixel 4a is hands-down my favorite phone I've ever used, and by-far it has
offered me the most performance with the least amount of hassle. Plus it was
hilariously cheap: in total I paid
$216 for this cute thing, not including the service, which was basically pennies
compared to other phone plans when I paid a base $20 per month + $10 per
GiB.

<table class=no-border>
<tr>
  <td colspan=2 class=spread-img>
[[!img img/pixel-4a-sep-2022.jpeg size="x500"]]
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th>Device</th>
  <td>Pixel 4a (<em>sunfish</em>)</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Hostname</th>
  <td><a href="https://myanimelist.net/character/12064/Taiga_Aisaka">
  Palmtop-Tiger</a></td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Dimensions</th>
  <td>144mm x 69.4mm x 8.2mm</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th/>
  <td>2340 x 1080 (19.5:9)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th/>
  <td>5.8in screen, 443ppi</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th>Weight</th>
  <td>143g</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th>ROM</th>
  <td>Lineage OS 19.1 (Android 12)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th>Owned</th>
  <td>February 2021 〜 Now</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th>Notable Hardware</th>
  <td>3.5mm headphone jack</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th/>
  <td>Rear fingerprint scanner</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th>Notes</th>
  <td>Rooted w/ Magisk (v25.2)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th/>
  <td>Ad-blocking w/ hosts file (AdAway)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <th/>
  <td></td>
</tr>
</table>

Despite being marketed mostly as a "budget" phone there are very few features
missing from this phone that I feel I'd want; it boasts some features over the
Pixel 4 that I really like: the 3.5mm headphone jack, rear-mounted fingerprint
scanner and a thinner bezel than both the Pixel 4 and Pixel 4 XL all are
features only the 4a boasts of the 3 phones in the Pixel 4 family.

Before this I used a Samsung S10e for about a year before technically
downgrading to this phone; the difficulty of rooting that particular Verizon
model of the S10e frustrated me as I desperately wanted to install
[AdAway](https://f-droid.org/packages/org.adaway/) as my system-wide adblocker
as well as to uninstall the annoying Samsung bloatware apps. Though the hardware
was nice for the time, I wanted a purer Android experience and the Samsung ROM
was clearly not that. Plus, rooting a phone (and maybe flashing a custom ROM)
makes me feel like I truly "own" my own device.

The All-in-One
--------------

Some lament that we no longer carry single-purpose devices like notebooks,
stopwatches, flashlights or pagers as often (or at all) anymore. I was in this
camp too for some time. To me, for a while, I considered phones as all-purpose
tools and I used my Pixel 4a accordingly: I submitted to the easy modern
lifestyle and loaded the phone to the brim with apps and used it idly, wasting
time reading things I thought were important or relevant or communicating with
people I've never meaningfully talked with anyhow, IRL or otherwise.

For reasons like this many people consider phones to be all-in-one devices. I
argue that this categorization depends on the person using the phone; I've
only recently become aware of (and have recently begun practicing) the ability
to use my phone as many single-purpose devices. At times it is a way to
communicate with the people I work with, other times it is a convenient way to
jot a note down so I do not forget, and yet other times it is a tool to dump
thoughts onto my Twitter feed in basically a write-only fashion. The important
thing is that I use it for the purpose I intend at the time I pick it up and
put it down exactly when I am done with the task I ventured to use it for.

Apps
----

When I flashed the 09.2022 build of Lineage OS onto my phone I took the
opportunity to wipe my Pixel clean and install this set of apps and tools that
would allow me to use my phone as I outlined above, ie as many single-purpose
tools rolled into one:

<table class=no-border>
<tr>
  <th>Launcher</th>
  <td>Blue Line Console</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th></th>
  <td>Nova Launcher</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Wallpaper</th>
  <td>Kustom Live Wallpaper (KLWP)</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>System</th>
  <td>AdAway</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th></th>
  <td>Magisk</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>File Sharing</th>
  <td>Primitive ftpd</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th></th>
  <td>Share via HTTP</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>VPN</th>
  <td>IVPN</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Browser</th>
  <td>Firefox Focus</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>E-mail</th>
  <td>K-9 Mail</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Chat</th>
  <td>Telegram</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th/>
  <td>Discord</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th/>
  <td>Twidere</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th/>
  <td>Slack</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Music</th>
  <td>Spotify</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Japanese Language</th>
  <td>Anki</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th></th>
  <td>Jisho</td>
</tr><tr>
<tr>
  <th colspan=2>&vellip;<br/>GApps Powergap<br/>&vellip;</th>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Navigation</th>
  <td>Google Maps</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Telephony</th>
  <td>Google Phone</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th></th>
  <td>Google Messages</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th></th>
  <td>Google Fi</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Camera</th>
  <td>Google Camera</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Keyboard</th>
  <td>GBoard</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Meetings</th>
  <td>Google Meet</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Collaboration</th>
  <td>Google Drive</td>
</tr><tr>
  <th>Quick notes + lists</th>
  <td>Google Keep</td>
</tr>
</table>

<figure class=left-float><video width=180 height=391 loop autoplay>
<source src="/vid/pixel-4a-sep-2022.mp4">
</video>
</figure>

I know, having so many Google services is shameful. I can justify some by the
fact my work uses GSuite. Google apps also unlock hardware features of the Pixel
4a that open-source apps can not / do not. Others apps (like Google Maps) are just too damn convenient. Why
would I add 20 minutes to my drive using some open-source navigation software
(that doesn't understand traffic flow) when I can consult for the best route
with the gods of data-mining themselves?

The biggest departure from typical UX is the launcher setup I use. [Nova
Launcher](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.teslacoilsw.launcher)
is the trusty app launcher I've used since I've been ricing seriously. Like in
many rices I've done before here it is only providing the screens on which KLWP
displays its Komponents. However, I've disabled its own app drawer (default
swipe up from the bottom) in favor of using [Blue Line
Console](https://f-droid.org/en/packages/net.nhiroki.bluelineconsole/), an app
launcher driven by the keyboard and configured keywords. I tap the picture in
the middle of the screen and the launcher opens. This way I engage my brain
to think of what I want to run instead of slowly scrolling through all my apps
in a drawer.

Note also how empty the KLWP wallpaper is; KLWP lets you rice your phone into
oblivion but I've chosen only to show a tappable picture. Before I had
cryptocurrency tickers, weather forecasts, RSS feeds, and many other things
loaded onto the homescreen directly. I've reasoned now that these have no place
on a phone which deliberately minimizes the opportunity for you to lose focus on
something else.

I have also muted notifications from many applications (especially Discord) and
added unique notification sounds for those apps which can still notify me so I
do not even need to pick up the phone to check those notifications if I know
they are trivial things like e-mail.
