[[!tag Personal_Device]]

wonder-pop is a Lenovo X61 Tablet and is what I consider my “daily” laptop. I
don't take it with me when I travel because it's hefty (about 3.75 pounds).
Additionally it has about 50 minutes of battery life meaning that it's more akin
to a “mobile desktop” than anything else, though this battery life will likely
2x once I upgrade its battery, and unintentionally its weight.

<table class=no-border>
<tr>
  <td colspan=2 class=spread-img>
    <figure>
    [[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiafozzkx73pyfyqyxkdwrrsawseee2rzlir7kawepv5htccle6hl4" size=medium]]
    </figure>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Compute</th>
<td>Intel Core 2 Duo L7500 (1.6GHz) CPU</td>
</tr><tr>
<th>Memory</th>
<td>4GiB PC2-5300 RAM</td>
</tr><tr>
<th>Display</th>
<td>1024 x 768 (4:3)</td>
</tr><tr>
<th/>
<td>12.1" tablet “touchscreen”</td>
</tr><tr>
<th/>
<td></td>
</tr><tr>
<th>Auxillary</th>
<td>Fingerprint reader</td>
</tr><tr>
<th/>
<td>Rotating + fold-down Wacom tablet screen</td>
</tr><tr>
<th/>
<td>Bluetooth 2.0 chip</td>
</tr>
</tr><tr>
<th/>
<td>SD Card slot</td>
</tr><tr>
<th/>
<td>Firewire 400 port</td>
</tr><tr>
<th/>
<td>Cardbus (type 2) slot</td>
</tr>
</table>

This computer was [[North_Carolina_State_University]] surplus equipment and was
sold to me for $10 in August 2018. I keep the original surplus equipment price
tag on the back though it's quite faded now.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigr5vbqbeoa5onwaodn5gq7flifhpc63tbrc3fmej75fmk5slay2u" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibnpimzdab7urit323qjxs4j4pvzkrmuefjrgozqcb4wdb4bwgrvu" size=medium]]
<figcaption>My X61 Tablet in a lecture hall in
[[NCSU's|North_Carolina_State_University]] Engineering Building 3 (left) and next to my Japanese [[x240]] (right)</figcaption>
</figure>

Additionally I own an X6 Tablet Ultrabase which docks to the bottom of this
tablet and which extends the functionality to include:

+ (1) serial port
+ (1) parallel port
+ (1) additional VGA port
+ (4) extra USB ports
+ Optical disk drive (MATSHITA UJDA775)
+ (1) additional RJ-11 (telephone) jack
+ (1) additional RJ-45 (ethernet) jack

The tablet functionality has been really nice working with my
[[318ti|BMW_318ti]]. I can fold the computer in half and lay it in the passenger
seat while still on and connected to my OBD-II port in the cabin, scraping
real-time data from the ECU as the car pushes the tachometer through its range.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigiyitxd7ztdgw52ghp3wjmt2tif7ma3fvbo6l7lefxxbbmer4g24" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreid2kjsroij24k35w44ygnkpfga6zydhlgku2ng4qp5y4zpum765ni" size=medium]]
<figcaption>My X61 Tablet in a lecture hall in
[[NCSU's|North_Carolina_State_University]] Engineering Building 3 (left) and next to my Japanese [[x240]] (right)</figcaption>
</figure>

The serial port is necessary to access further modules within this E36 unless
one jumps some pins in the 20-pin Pacman connector under the hood. A K+DCAN tool will
do this without needing to jump those pins too. Modules which are inaccessible
are things like the instrument cluster, airbags, ABS + traction control and the
“comfort” features like making headlights flash during key FOB activation and
other small things like this which are programmed with NCSExpert coding.

