[[!tag DJ_Set]]
[[!meta title="re;set02"]]

[ [Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/6NrmgURJCC0) / [[!myipfs QmTXeV6N1gtsaSkKfpsQxoZKye9Ljcyh3D84vnZWPUL79u desc="Download full version from IPFS"]] ]

December 7, 2024

re;set02 was a URL event with 12 different artists that was in similar spirit to
the [[first re;set|re-set]] which I also played. While the previous stream of
re;set was hosted on Twitch this iteration was hosted at
[reloadreset.net](https://reloadreset.net) and broadcast using Restreamer;
Twitch's new DJ program made it infeasible to host this event on their platform.

The [[!myipfs QmTXeV6N1gtsaSkKfpsQxoZKye9Ljcyh3D84vnZWPUL79u desc="IPFS
version"]] of my re;set2 set has my ~1.5 minute intro and text chat from the
event attached.

<figure class="image-square">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihackbnjytz4fsmbgtohnn64t6xjojn7wtroknfgthmre5v3qonfq" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifgdumzk3ofei5aeca5jhwd4gt6tioxbwh6jxqw6urlt2ohenrsjm" size=medium]]
</figure>

1. Gregor McMurray — What I Want
2. Isoxo — dontstopme! (DRYDEN remix)
3. ALRT — New Hype
4. Beastboi — Burn
5. Sudoverse — Cyber Knight
6. BlackCrow — OutCast
7. Frost Children — FLATLINE (Eliminate Remix)
8. leroy — it's up to YOU now!!
9. momone — What is it already morning?
10. momone — never lied to you
11. Oolacile — Bathtub Marlboro
12. Zeds Dead — Eyes on Fire VIP
13. ident — burning, alive (Katzhu Remix)
14. ISOKNOCK — THRASH (PARTY STARTER)
15. Dj Psycangle — Smile, Fuck Up (Wan Bushi Remix)
16. maniken05 — one shot
17. ღDJ魔女っ娘ミラクるんღ —  ゅ─､ζ､ぃ─ゑʚ ♥ɞ
18. Virtual Self — Particle Arts (What A Shino Frenchcore Edit)

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lcz43msoc22n"]]
