[[!tag Car]]

My '97 BMW 318ti is the first car I've really owned and maintained by myself. It
taught me how to think like a mechanic, act like a mechanic, and fix things like
a mechanic. It has no shortage of things to fix and I've loved every second of
driving and caring for this car.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiflbfa7uzk4huvatrkt6wjbl7vubi2nx3n22ob5zjdtojelvmj67u" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidqxyvy62dod5n5wxkfclajvzr32zjisbpguxuz7r4fq6tv7mer64" size=medium]]
</figure>

I keep a [little gallery of the car](https://gallery.wesl.ee/gallery/E36)
online. Below is a little writing about work I've done on this 318ti:

[[!inline pages="BMW_318ti/Work" rss="no"]]

... I've also started writing about the things I learn about the car as I learn them:

[[!inline pages="BMW_318ti/Knowledge" rss="no"]]

Rally Dreams
------------

I bought this car right out of college, and though I worked at a coffee shop
during school for a brief period of time I only saved up $1400 before quitting
that job to focus on school. Throughout the day I fantisized about buying my
dream car, at the time a Volkswagen Golf GTI. This love for small hatchbacks was
imparted on me, probably, by the hours I sank into Need for Speed: Most Wanted 2
(PS2) in middle- and high-school.

The spring of my last semester in [[college|School/North_Carolina_State_University]]
I was extremely fortunate to line up a job starting exactly the Monday after my
last final exam, ECE453 — Electric Motors, on a Tuesday. As soon as I collected
my first two paychecks from my new job as a software engineer / routing person
which trumped anything I ever made working at the coffee shop I went
car-shopping. I looked everywhere for a clean GTI but didn't find one within a
good distance. But soon after I started looking I found this BMW 318ti, almost
completely stock, for a mere $4000. After I test-drove it for 10 minutes I knew
I had to have it. I immediately had my boyfriend drive me to the bank to swap
cash for title with the owner. With no rust and in running condition this, I
decided, was going to be the car to get me into cars.

I heard a lot of things like "BMWs are hard to maintain" and "the parts are too
expensive" and while those things may be true of newer BMWs they could be no
further from the truth when it comes to older BMWs. The E36, which is the
chassis code of my particular 318ti, is an extremely simple machine with a small
1.9L inline 4-cylinder M44 engine. Fuel-injection is controlled electronically
and, being a later-model E36, it's equipped with OBD-II instead of OBD-I which
makes diagnostics far easier. The engine can be a little sluggish, especially
considering that some E36 have 6-cylinder engines, but it's still a snappy
little car in turns so I can forgive it for its lack of punchy acceleration.
It can still go quite fast too, I've taken it up to 105 MPH on the highway and
it shows no hesitation at even higher speeds. The power is hidden in the higher
RPMs so you can let it wind-up to 5000 RPM to really see all the little engine
is capable of.

The only part I can tell which is not stock is the aftermarket JVC stereo, which
I've since hooked up to a subwoofer in the trunk for the true *hatchback
experience*.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicbo4fm6j6czbu4f63ebfqooxohftp5ukvolvm5cwxpwobe56xfpa" size=medium]]
</figure>

Maintaining the Dream
---------------------

I've taken care of the regular maintainance on my E36; its one of the things I'm
very proud I can do. I've torn down the entire intake, carbon-cleaned all
nooks of the intake manifold and put it all back together just using my growing
set of automotive tools and my copy of the BMW E36 Bentley service manual, a
1000+ page book detailing every inch of the E36 and how it all fits together.
With BMW's unconventional variable-length intake manifold, things can get pretty
complex in there, but the experience made me far more comfortable working on
cars than I thought I would ever be.

And with an old Thinkpad X61 tablet I bought at [N.C. State's electronics
surplus
sale](https://procurement.ofa.ncsu.edu/our-services/surplus/surplus-sales/) for
a mere $10 I'm able to read OBD-II datapoints from the car and plot them either
while idling or while driving. It's an incredibly valuable tool for diagnosing
problems because you can check read data as simple as intake air volume all the
way down to minutia like the contribution of each cylinder to the total engine
output power.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigiyitxd7ztdgw52ghp3wjmt2tif7ma3fvbo6l7lefxxbbmer4g24" size=medium]]
</figure>

Overall, making the jump from not having worked on cars to being very
comfortable with many aspects of regular and specialty maintainance had a very
positive impact on my life; the experience reminds me that with enough effort
and confidence I can tackle many things which may seem daunting at first. This
outlook is reflected in a lot of the things I do and in the chances I take today.
