[[!tag Car]]

The water pump in any car is responsible for pushing coolant through the engine
block to prevent the engine from overheating. These pumps are typically driven
by the same serpentine belt that powers the alternator and power steering pump
and is driven by the crankshaft pulley.

The BMW E36 shipped with a water pump featuring a plastic impeller. Though the
composite BMW uses for this impeller has gotten better in recent years a common
failure of the E36 cooling system was due to this plastic; it had the tendency
to break apart suddenly due to age or use. This is not healthy for the cooling
system and if this happens then engine overheating is imminent as coolant is not
being pushed through the block to the radiator to distribute the accumulated
heat. Also you'd have a bunch of plastic impeller shards in your coolant
system which is not where they belong.

It's worth noting that a hot engine is not always a result of a water pump
failure but a water pump failure will eventually result in engine overheating.
For this reason, replacing the factory-installed water pump in the E36 with a
pump using a metal impeller is a common maintainance item that supports the
longevity of the engine and will protect against being stranded by an overheated
engine. If the engine is allowed to overheat significantly it is *very* likely
to sustain fatal damage requiring a full teardown. Even worse, the ECU buffers
the temperature reading from the engine so the temperature displayed in the
cabin thermometer lags what the engine is actually experiencing. By the time the
engine overheat light comes on the engine may already be in dangerous territory.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifypblrztwx3z3gav4qrlyq5p7azn6ezronqfvfsppndbujrzkfdq" size=medium]]
<figcaption>OEM water pump with plastic impeller (left) and the new water
pump with metal impeller (right)</figcaption>
</figure>

Anyhow I performed this upgrade on my [[BMW_318ti]]. The only good thing about
this car's [[BMW_318ti/M44_Engine]] being an inline-4 is that there is much more
room in the engine bay. So much room in fact that the radiator does not even
need to be removed to perform this maintainance as it would need to be if
working on any of the inline-6 E36s like the M3. Removing the fan shroud is
helpful however.

I won't detail every step of this upgrade, consult your service manual for the
exact process. But I will include some insight and document my experience here.

It's a good idea to perform other maintainance items while you have the
belts off and block drained. Personally I replaced both serpentine belts while
they were off. A note about the belt tensioners: the secondary belt tensioner
required a 8mm hex tool to untension; the tensioner for the main belt required a
torx T50 bit; both of these things I did not have and needed to wait on. The
secondary belt was rather easy to untension with the right tools but the main
belt tensioner required a comical amount of force to move just a little bit to
slide the belt off; putting it back on was a feat of strength and required a
second person because I used both my hands to torque and steady the ratchet. My
E36 uses a hydraulic tensioner in contrast to the mechanical tensioner used on
the secondary belt.

Removing the water pump was a nightmare. I have read every forum post in
existence on the topic and it seems these pumps either pop out with a little bit
of extra force once all four bolts are out or are welded into the block by God
and are very difficult to pull. Unfortunately mine was the latter. BMW tapped
two threads on the top and bottom of the pump into which you can drive the same
size bolts as are on the thermostat. In its infinite wisdom some BMW engineer
also designed the pump to have a large metal fin going exactly over this tapped
thread on the bottom.

I used these threads to attempt to drive the pump out. The bottom bolt got
stuck as clearance between the fin and the bolt head became so small after
driving it in that I couldn't fit the socket on it anymore. On the top side, the
pump was so stuck in the block that driving the top bolt in broke the entire top
tab of the water pump off. I seriously strained my bicep trying to pull it out
directly.

This was vexing. A week after I snapped the tab we had a party at my house and I
convinced everyone to take turns wailing on this thing using a pry bar after
we'd been properly inebriated; nobody could make it move more than a few mm.
This was probably due to only applying force to the top of the pump, causing it
to lodge itself cockeyed in the block. I tried every angle over the next few
days using various prybars.

Eventually I ideated a solution to this problem that would use a bearing puller
to pull the pump from the block. Though the application was a bit different than
what a bearing puller is designed for I figured it could work. I would drive two
bolts through the holes of the bearing puller and apply equal pressure to both
sides of the pump this way, mimicking what the tabs are meant to do.

The particular puller I ordered had holes tapped for an M9 bolt which is
extremely rare and weird that they did this. The extensions they provided of
course fit in these holes, but I needed bolts to go *through* these holes, not
extensions to thread halfway into them. Because of their rarity M9 bolts are
also quite expensive; I decided against ordering 2 bolts for $40 and looked for
another solution to the bolt thing. The hardware store near me sells only the
even-numbered metric bolts, unsurprisingly; I settled on using a 5/16" bolt
which will fit in a 9mm sized hole and, because this would not thread in that
hole on the puller, a corresponding nut on the other side of the puller to
thread the bolt through. I placed two shims of wood against the block to prevent
further cosmetic damage to the timing case.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreig44pv4ncnzxv7t5avq6p3il23lz452cfto2l5aj4n6wmu4vw5bom" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiefvgfbyrefw5vrwbpwbrmzchvc5havw7pxsa645wxf5hakruktla" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Described puller doing its job; note the abuse on the pump</figcaption>
</figure>

This use of the puller worked and the pump popped out like it was nothing. I
replaced the pump and installed new screws for the pump, as the one that got
stuck in the pump tab was unable to be removed easily. I replaced the belts and,
as mentioned, called on my fiancé to install the main belt while I torqued the
tensioner back with strength I only cultivated over the [[last year|2023]].

With new coolant mixed together I refilled the radiator (making sure the drain
plug and drain bolt were tightened to spec) and bled air from the system until
the cabin heat ran hot when the engine was at mid-temp.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidtjf3y3mswkhz2l6ur6pgjr3l5xqhzwlspwevhihko4v5b4nmo54" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Just enough concentrated coolant cut with distilled water to fill the system</figcaption>
</figure>

I threw the old, very scarred pump into the trash and that was that.
