[[!tag Year_End]]

This year I did a lot of stuff; I especially valued breadth over depth.

Fitness
-------

The accomplishment I am most proud of is working my way up to being able to
bench press at least my body weight. Considering that I was near 135lb at the
beginning of the year, basically untrained and could lift 120lb at max, I began
my training without much strength. I am now 155lb and can take on 165lb as my
one-rep max; I recognize this magnitude is not impressive for my size but, given
my progression, I am proud of myself. I began squatting halfway through the year
so my gains there aren't as impressive in that area, but hey, who's looking at
your quads anyway?

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiduz2asosyafjx5ua6zmzsgo7gnz4q6q3gv2eg2bgqmilxw6lfnom" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreieldvanhzqmxhzytuod7dxtbsf7uyasmnbb33hzzb4juripzluhaa" size=medium]]
<figcaption>30 April 2023 @ 140lb (left) vs 26 Nov 2023 @ 153lb</figcaption>
</figure>

[[Physical_Fitness]] became my hobby and obsession this year. Being in my gym is
fun. My gym is in a building butting against a church and behind what one person
described to me as “the main strip here” which really means a gun shop,
laundromat and a physical Verizon store. It seems businesses in these leased
buildings rotate in and out very often; that may be just a small-town thing I
hadn't noticed before I understood debt; previously this place was also a gym
under a different name, offering tanning services, childcare and everything
short of small engine repair, on top of being a gym, that was displaced from its
original location some miles down the road by a US post office. Unclear what it
was before this.

There is a local chain gym that is less than 1000 feet from my gym but sports 2
fewer power racks, a number more treadmills + elipticals and additional square
footage reserved in the back rooms reserved for hydromassage machine(s). But
I've never visited there. I like mine because the guys I meet at my gym seem
hardcore and I want to be like them in many ways. They train hard. They're in
their machinist jumpers when they come by to lift after work. I recognized one
of them as the mechanic who inspected my [[BMW_318ti]] during its annual safety
inspection. But more than anything I want to be as strong as them; I don't envy
being a machinist or a technician at a general automotive garage at all.

My goal for this upcoming year is to bulk to 160lb then cut down the incidental
body fat I've gained while bulking and training so I can look fresh as fuck #wagmi

Drawing
-------

Around the time I began to seriously train I began to learn to draw too.
Everyone draws as a child; it's just a natural language of expression. But many
quit early; I know I quit around 8 or 9 years old. That's the age when children
develop from just scribbling into the simple “schematic” drawing which features
basic representations of objects; they make the important parts of things
larger; this is a trend you can find in prehistoric art like the cave
paintings; at this age you choose whether you put your sun in the corner of the
page or put it over the house.

Witnessing the evolution of generative AI focused on art over the past few years
from the GANNs that powered [This Waifu Does Not
Exist](https://www.thiswaifudoesnotexist.net/index.html) to Stable Diffusion more recently
pushed me to approach drawing again in February of this year. In 2018 I took
*Introduction to Art History* at [[Sophia_University]] while studying in Tōkyō;
it was my favorite course I took there and, looking back, it exposed me to many
pieces of art I fell in love with. [Annunciation with St. Margaret and St.
Ansanus](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q979440) is one such piece I had never
heard of before this class introduced me to it; that class turned me on to many
different styles and mediums but especially oil painting and sculpture; I wish I
kept my textbook but I threw it out to make room for more dōjinshi right before
my flight back to the states along with my translated copy of the Genji
Monogatari.

As for drawing this year I started slow and practiced deliberately when I did,
reading theory and copying drawings as well as I could. I ought to have drawn
more this year, I only filled out a quarter of my sketchbook since February, but
all things considered this year was a good start; next year will be even better
for my creative output. I still have not drawing anything “from my head” as I
have simply drawn what I have seen in reference drawings, still-life scenes and
landscapes.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibcg2ygn3r4bmw3rh4x7uuetza2u6dg227qk72tiz6xu4eve7xcyi" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihjfsn6x6anlcadfvznvm6ofw5tlqyoafdjydm7huqku3jii6rhxu" size=medium]]
<figcaption>A few anime girls in my sketchbook; not landscapes but you get the idea</figcaption>
</figure>

Tōkyō
-----

In June I visited [[Tōkyō|Tokyo_23]] with friends. It was the first time I had
been back since I [[lived there in 2018|Sophia_University]]. I was so happy to
go back and visit a city that had such an impact on me during my formative
back-9 at uni. From arrival to departure I was flooded with emotions I had
forgotten, some negative (mostly incompetence like *you're not fluent enough;
didn't you study this language for years?*) but most emotions I felt were
positive. This was the same smattering of emotions I felt when I lived there; I
loved showing friends the city too; one week was not enough. I dream of living
there some day but reality keeps me anchored.

Piercing
--------

I had my [[ears pierced|Piercings]] in December of this year. My fiancé had this
done about a year ago and since then had I always thought about getting mine
done, not because I am <span class=gay-text>gay</span>, but because I thought it
would look tight as fuck; I was right.

I got four piercings, two in both ear lobes. I am letting these stab wounds heal
for now, then I may well get more done in the future.

Sewing
------

This year I also began to sew. One of my first projects was
[[Rendering_Jeans_into_Hemmed_Shorts]]. Bulking from 135lb to 155lb has raised a
technical challenge fitting into the short shorts I made while learning to sew
then; I can barely squeeze my ass into them now; it looks great when I do :)
I will probably have to retire those shorts after I bulk to 160lb.

Picking up sewing sparked a new confidence in me that has encouraged and pushed
me to explore beyond just sewing. I have also cut off and hemmed about every
crop-top hoodie or shirt I wear. Next year I will try to design my own piece of
clothing, likely starting with a skirt as that is the most simple garment to
design.

Millennium Strike Prologue 2023 — Chicago
-----------------------------------------

In October I [played my first proper “in-person” DJ
set](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GahGCvpkXds) in Chicago at the Digital Art
Demo Space there with a longtime friend DJ'ing under his alias Bushmaster for
[Millennium Strike](https://twitter.com/MilleniumStrike). I was under my
[[DJR3]] pseudonym and wearing a crop-top I sewed a few weeks before.

Some things fucked up in the Unity window I was using as a visualizer while I
was playing (mostly my fault) but it was all okay in the end :)

HooYa! Image Management
-----------------------

I learned to program when I was 13 so programming feats are kinda *meh* at this
point. When I was a freshman in college an engineer at Intel explained to me
that he used to program in his free time until he took it as a job. He still did
program outside of work every once in a while; it was very minor stuff though,
baseball stats. I was incredulous at first, having just entered school, but I
understand him now at the green age of 27. But unlike him instead of writing
Python to track RBI statistics I am writing image tagging software.

This year I pushed my [[HooYa!|HooYa]] image tagging software to a decent state;
now I host images on this wiki from my own cluster of the HooYa! network, how
cool! Those links on this website to the current build of HooYa! always start
with `web.hooya.wesl.ee` which is a web gateway proxying HTTP traffic to
the protocol's native gRPC calls brought to you by protobuf. I have not written
anything about how the current build works because it's still pre-alpha
software. I do no promise any functionality beyond what you see today;
I have a *normal* job to focus on, dummy.

Cryptocurrency
--------------

Speaking of *normal* jobs in February I <span class=trans-text>transitioned</span> from
building DeFi products with insane amounts of possible leverage to building
regulated crypto TradFi offerings together with Nasdaq's Digital Assets
business.

In terms of personal investment in the crypto space I have done a great job
at managing my capital this year, considering what my batting average was in the
[[Terra|Digital_Money/Terra]] ecosystem for 2022.
