[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — A-Sha x Hot Ones Smoky Chili Noodles"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

I'm playing [[!wikipedia World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade]] on a private
server and in a state of trance leveling up my mining and smithing in Hellfire
Peninsula. I never played retail WoW before so the experience and world is novel
to me. Growing up the two MMORPGs I played were Runescape and [[!wikipedia The
Lord of the Rings Online: Mines of Moria]]. In both games I had characters with
a top-tier mining stat; my profession in WoW was a chance to revisit that. But
tonight it's late, and I'm a little hungry.

I remember I went to WalMart a couple months ago, a rarity because the closest
is 15 minutes away by car but the nearest Food Lion is 5.

<table class="no-border">
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-foodlion.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
</table>

Anyhow, I was at the Walmart and I saw a number of novel cup noodles. [Totino's
Cheese Pizza Ramen Noodles](https://www.totinos.com/products/ramen), for
instance, and these, A-Sha Hot Ones Smoky Chili Noodles. A-Sha is a Taiwanese
company that has a healthy USA division. I was skeptical about these going in,
both because of the Hot Ones branding and because I'd never heard of A-Sha.

Tonight I fish these out of my pantry and start boiling the water.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibp5dxpempicvtesomv7sral7geb277yxaganbdblvwyjcznws32i" size=medium]]
</figure>

Cooking them the recommended 3 minutes in the cup with hot water, the noodles
come out a bit al dente, which is fine by me. I much prefer chewy to completely
soggy. The aroma is amazing, redolent of McDonald's picante chili sauce, which
basically smells like a sweet jalapeño hot sauce.

The provided broth is a liquid base in two separate packets, always a good
sign. Also included was a third packet with dried vegetables. I've added in the
Bonus Heat Pack, though I don't expect much heat.

The noodles do not absorb much of the broth and are bland by themselves. I love
the al dente texture, though. It is a tiny bit more spicy than most instant
noodles that say "Spicy" but not by much.
[[Nissin_Hot_Spicy_Fire_Wok_Volcanic_Mongolian_Beef]] were substantially hotter
but, in A-Sha's defense, those noodles have 6 peppers on the front and this cup
only has six-tenths of a pepper colored in. A few floating <s>green onions</s>
scallions break up the monotony of the noodles but do not add much to the
overall flavor.

True to the smell, the broth _does_ taste like that McDonalds picante sauce.
Smoky and spicy. Notes of tomato and jalapeño. All together it's a pleasant,
slow-building, novel flavor for instant noodles. Nothing I've had before
compares. Not to say it's amazing, just new. Which is a great thing in itself. 

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Serving | Paper cup (72g) |
| Calories | 250cal |
| Fat | 10g |
| Carbohydrates | 35g |
| Sodium | 1450mg |
| Protein | 5g |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3mln4qh3ji22w"]]
