Web search has gotten worse. Maybe it's always been like this and I only just
started to notice. In any case, web searches today are poisoned with ads,
AI-generated content and SEO. Somewhere within those results you may find your
answer or a link to the code you want.

Until they figure out how to do SEO for an AI, or OpenAI opens bidding for
embedding ads into its model, replacing my search engine (Startpage) with
ChatGPT has yielded a much more pleasant experience using the Internet that has
provided straightforward answers to questions far more succinctly than the
rambling articles about recipes, gardening or whatnot that are engineered for
the highest CTR on the exact words you typed in.

Adding ChatGPT to the url bar is done by by adding a custom search engine and
setting it as the default. That way, when you type something in and hit enter
you are greeted with ChatGPT helpfully responding directly to your query.

Paired with my [[Firefox/Smart_Searching]] across many different sites offering
search, I am able to find the resource I need or the answer to my question
almost every time without pulling out the tired `@g` shortcut for a Google
search.

Follow the instructions in the above linked article to add a new search
engine, specifically for Firefox. If you use Chrome then the instructions are
similar but the menu names are different.

This is the query string you're going to add:

[[!syntax text="""
https://chat.openai.com/chat?q=%s&temporary-chat=true
"""]]

Recently `temporary-chat=true` has caused some issues, namely that I get a
response and then it immediately disappears. It's a bug on their end that's
forced me to remove it, though I wish it worked because my one-off queries now
clutter my history. Better than not using it all though.

ChatGPT recently opened access to SearchGPT for everyone, even people not signed
in. It and is accessible with the following query string:

[[!syntax text="""
https://chat.openai.com/chat?q=%s&temporary-chat=true&hints=search
"""]]

I use ChatGPT Search as a drop-in replacement for Google as a tool that I use to
find documentation or to research things for this wiki. I used
[Perplexity](https://perplexity.ai) before SearchGPT was made generally
available.
