[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Adrenaline Rush"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Adrenanine Rush is an odd drink with a long history. Adrenaline Rush was first
released in 2000 for beverage company SoBe. SoBe was founded in 1996 by John
Bello and Tom Schwalm, then sold to PepsiCo in 2000 for $370 million[^1]. Today,
PepsiCo still distributes Adrenaline Rush. The can I have is Product of Honduras
from Embotelladora de Sula, S.A, with the words Bebida Energizante written on
the front. There is a playful graphic on the front with the lizard motif, but
with SoBe written nowhere on the can. It seems Adrenaline Rush was rebranded
after SoBe withdrew from the US market around 2011.

<figure><div class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibiqtu5pvmrzhni6s2sxffu6d3silfwwed4zd5axgmtz7h6344ju4" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreighqp5k2o6np3dmbzivbo2z7vll5xcb7xnxxbanxo7voujpso5hei" size=medium]]
</div>
</figure>

SoBe bottled all of its drinks in glass until 2007 when it switched to plastic.
One drink branded by SoBe, SoBe No Fear, had creatine in it[^2]. I triple-checked this claim
and it appears to be true. [[Bang|Bang_Black_Cherry_Vanilla]] would later enter
the market with Super Creatine (no relation). It apepars SoBe was ahead of the
game, and still failed, reminding us that it takes more than just being early to
be successful.

SoBe also produced a wide variety of tea and infused water. Nowadays the only
lingering SoBe product I see is Adrenaline Rush. It seems Adrenaline Rush has a
larger presence abroad, especially in Russia and Latin America. I've not seen on
produced in the US in a long time.

Adrenaline Rush tastes like... nothing. It's a remarkably empty and vapid
profile. A hint of grapefruit plus orange and just, nothing. It is very easy to
drink for this reason, not too acidic nor too flat. But not remarkable in any
other way. And notably sugary, too.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 10 floz |
| Calories | 150cal |
| Caffeine | Unclear |

[^1]:  Olson, Jorge S.; Lopez, Carlos (February 13, 2009). Build Your Beverage
       Empire. Jorge Olson. p. 67. ISBN 978-0-9821425-1-6.

[^2]: [https://energy-drink-ratings.blogspot.com/2006/05/no-fear-sobe-energy-drink-review.html](https://energy-drink-ratings.blogspot.com/2006/05/no-fear-sobe-energy-drink-review.html)
