[[!tag Recipe]]

This is a recipe for air fryer sweet potato fries that I ideated and cooked
about an hour ago and found pleasant enough to write about.

Despite not being closely related to russets you can do anything to sweet
potatoes that you'd do to russets. This is up to and including mashing or frying
them. Sweet potatoes are also not closely related to yams either, just so you
know.

- 2 sweet potatoes (or enough that fit in your air fryer loosely)
- Olive oil
- Smoked paprika
- Cumin
- Garlic powder
- Salt (to taste)

Cut the potatoes into 1/4″ slices lengthwise along the vegetable after rounding
off the ends. A sharp knife helps as sweet potatoes are tough to cut when
somewhat fresh. Toss the slices in a mixing bowl with olive oil, smoked paprika,
cumin, garlic powder and a generous amount of salt.

For ~250g of sweet potatoes (~2 potatoes) cook these in an air fryer on 375℉ for
20 minutes, turning after about 10. This could be done in an oven too as the
only difference between an oven and an air fryer is the flow of air through the
oven. If you have a _convection_ oven there is no difference, this is simply a
large air fryer.

Before removing check for doneness and add time if needed. When done, remove
from the oven, taste for seasoning and add more salt as you like.

The fries should come out crispy on the outside, somewhat visibly blackened, and
fully cooked on the inside. They are not crispy throughout like fries done in a
deep fryer but they are quite good themselves. Eat them like regular fries, so
with mayonnaise, hot sauce, ketchup or some homemade dipping whatever. I used
hot sauce because that's what I immediately had on hand but something cooler and
creamy would've hit the spot.
