[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Alinamin 7"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Before today I didn't realize how important an ingredient taurine is. Sometimes
I see it in energy drink formulas but I've never had a drink that was mostly
taurine with relatively little caffeine. I thought the caffeine did most of the
heavy lifting. I was wrong.

Alinamin 7 is one of those not-energy-drinks. The closest I can relate it to in
the US market is 5-hour energy and adjacent energy shots. Those are mostly
caffeine with a handful of other ingredients. Officially drinks like Alinamin 7
and Dekavita C are called 医薬部外品 "quasi-medicine". Which is a rather scary
term. But do I look like a bitch? Of course not. Crack it open.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreideubl6jdtb74aekpcglkaqt73lca5njm35fykqbytv3qbw7n23zm" size=medium]]
</figure>

It tastes tart with a weirdly vegetable-adjacent finish. Bitter but I like it.
Not hard to drink plus it's only 100mL. I didn't really know what I was getting
myself in to. I got it because it was the only one with caffeine, albeit 50mg.

Even so I immediately feel like I slammed a redbull. I was very confused because
this drink only has 50mg caffeine and that should roll off me like nothing.
I did not think taurine was so effective by itself but after slamming the drink
down in one quick sitting I sure goddamn felt it. At first I was confused,
because I knew it was only 50mg caffeine, until I read more closely and saw
1000mg of taurine. In a 16floz [[Monster]] there is 2000mg of taurine and 160mg
of caffeine. Alinamin 7 is like slamming half that can in a few seconds. No
wonder!

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 100mL |
| Calories | 72cal |
| Caffeine | 50mg |
| Taurine | 1000mg |
| Vitamin B2 | 2mg |
| Vitamin B6 | 2.5mg |
| Nicotinamide | 2.5mg |
| Fursultiamine hydrochloride | 2.5mg |
| Sodium L-aspartate | 125mg |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3mhq33zbkes2g"]]
