[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Ashoc Blue Raspberry"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Founded by Lance Collins, the founder of Nos, Fuze, premium water brand Core,
and BodyArmor, Ashoc is an energy drink that positions itself as a natural,
clean, zero-sugar alternative to high-sugar energy drinks. Previously it was
known as Adrenaline Shoc but that was eventually shortened to just Ashoc. I
found it because it's $1.25 at the Dollar Tree.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiboudkjgze6jm42lem3qnsut5ylyj36lzou3y2cssyneip2jvxw3m" size=medium]]
</figure>

Ashoc Blue Raspberry tastes like a blue sno-cone with a heavy vanilla note on
the finish. It's actually really good. For $1.25 it's an amazing value
proposition and I easily pay more for almost everything Ashoc competes against,
which seems to be chiefly [[Celsius|Celsius_Raspberry_Acai_Green_Tea]] and
[[Ghost|Ghost_Energy_x_Welchs_Grape]]. Given the choice I'd buy this more often,
but it doesn't meaningfully differentiate itself from other options on the
shelf. Also it has extremely poor distribution, at least where I live, despite
heavy investment from Keurig Dr. Pepper. KDP actually [acquired a majority stake
in
Ghost](https://news.keurigdrpepper.com/2024-10-24-Keurig-Dr-Pepper-to-Acquire-Disruptive-Energy-Drink-Business-GHOST)
in 2024 and will acquire the remaining 40% stake in 2028, so I see why Ashoc is
not widely distributed anymore, if it ever was.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 10cal |
| Caffeine | 200mg |

