[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Bang Black Cherry Vanilla"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

I've mentioned this before, but Bang is a weird brand. At one time its own
company, VPX, the producer of Bang, was sued out of existence by Monster for
false advertising[^1]. The advertising in question was the label
[[Super_Creatine]] at the top of all Bang cans, which monster claims is a
misleading phrase pasted there in an attempt to cut into Monster's share of the
workout energy drink market, which it held down with its brand Reign Total Body
Fuel.

Ordered to pay $311 million to Monster Energy, the largest claim ever made under
the federal Lanham act, VPX declared bankruptcy and was acquired by Monster for
$362 million in 2023. Interestingly this is not the only suit VPX was involved
in. Previously they settled with a company called Orange Bang Inc., which
claimed the use of "Bang" for pre-workout could cause confusion among consumers
thinking this was associated with Orange Bang Inc.[^2] The settlement limited
their use of the trademark Bang to only "creatine-based" drinks. In 2015 VPX
launched the Bang Energy ready-to-drink (RTD), which carried the
"super-creatine" label. Orange Bang Inc. and Monster teamed up to blow up Bang,
because Monster claimed "Super Creatine" is not creatine (which it's not), which
if true, violates the previous settlement with Orange Bang Inc.
Also, in 2022 the estate of Prince sued VPX, claiming their "Purple Rain"
flavor infringes on the Prince's image; Purple Rain was later renamed Purple
Haze.

On the front of this Black Cherry Vanilla can, where the words Fuel Your Destiny
are, is where the Super Creatine text was before they were made to remove it.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreieanxgpimoh6l3ps4wpaagv6b24sgq4aqpjfht5ni3pxgxh2sdhaq" size=medium]]
</figure>

Black Cherry Vanilla smells and tastes like artificial cherry. There's a
pleasant depth to it, almost an earthy taste. This contrasts with some other
cherry flavors that taste light and thin. On the finish this tastes distantly
like watermelon.

It's easy to drink and zero sugar. At 300mg caffeine it can make you quite
jittery.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 0cal |
| Caffeine | 300mg |

[^1]: Monster Energy Co v. Vital Pharmaceuticals Inc d/b/a VPX Sports, 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, No. 23-55451.
[^2]: Orange Bang Inc v. Vital Pharmaceuticals Inc, U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, No. 5:20-cv-01464.

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3ln52ezim2s2u"]]
