[[!tag Tinned_Fish Review]]

Like all novel things I sample in life, at least recently, this tinned fish
comes from the Exxon near me. Exxon just has more variety than anywhere in the
Southeast US and when you open your eyes in a gas station you'll be surprised
what you find. Hence, these fish. And they were only $1.50? Fuck yes.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicep24624jyas5hz2ldssgd3sxwkaq77ksszfrgji7hoezudl3awa" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidzmx3qso6b4jr4gjsmfv7sepspbapjyp5jprquzqxjlsw5zi7fvu" size=medium]]
</figure>

Herring by the way.

What surprises me is that they're whole. I should have guessed this with "fish
steaks" being literally part of the name but I haven't had tinned fish like this
before. You could eat these with your hands, they are that resiliant.

The hot sauce is watery and spicy, but just barely. The fish are well
underseasoned. The only hot sauce I know of from louisiana is Tabasco so I
assume this is either actually Tabasco or made in the same style. It's less
spicy than Tobasco, so I lean on the side of just Tabasco-style hot sauce.

Texture is fine. Dry but not distracting.

Over rice these would shine. Eating them with crackers (you know, like a normal
person eating tinned fish in their kitchen) is a upsetting because of how they
stay whole. I'm used to having fish all over the cracker, not just at one end!
Maybe I'm meant to eat them like the canned food in S.T.A.L.K.E.R. ...

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreie4ivbtiphezlifra5zidhlnldf6am4f6r3pmearqpj76qpbpooby" size=medium]]
</figure>

There's no nutrition label on these, at least on the tin I bought. I think the
FDA is slacking! I've found this information online though:

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Calories | 150cal |
| Fat | 8g |
| Carbohydrates | 2g |
| Sodium | 470mg |
| Protein | 15g |
