[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Big Game Energy Cotton Candy"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Big Game is energy for gamers; from the same company that makes [[Bucked
Up|Bucked_Up_Miami]] which is energy for gym bros. The logo on both is almost
the same which is why I was so confused when this was labeled "Big Game" instead
of "Bucked Up." I've written about Bucked Up in my brief [[energy drink
history|Living_In_The_Energy_Drink_Renaissance]]. When I saw "Big Game" with the
familiar logo I assumed this was a rebrand (it's not) from the menacingly-named
Bucked Up, but instead this is a different product line with a different
audience with a milder caffeine content and none of the stuff that goes into
their preworkout products.

Where Bucked Up has deer antler velvet extract, beta alanine, AlphaSize
(clinically shown to sharpen mental focus) and 300mg of caffeine, Big Game has a
modest 150mg and none of the weird deer antler derivatives.

Bucked Up makes me want to run or lift stuff; Big Game does not.

Bucked Up makes my face tingle; Big Game does not.

Different drinks for different needs.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigidgdqlbgvngkz3q2s7xqhxmn2engkguo6uazl7hd73v5sixgvja" size=medium]]
</figure>

The cotton candy flavor of Big Game tastes very sweet and light. With zero sugar
it has none of the tell-tale stickiness that a drink with high fructose corn
syrup leaves in the mouth. The carbonation is strong. Throughout, the taste is
like cream soda with a note of a being a bit sour, artificial. This last part
must come from the malic acid. Cotton candy is a very appropriate name for it
though. All together it is pleasant and very easy to drink. If I saw Big Game
regularly I'd get it far more often; presently I've only found it at the local
Dollar Tree where I find all sorts of crazy shit like the
[[Obsesso_Iced_Coconut_Latte]], Sprecher's charged lemonade and
[[Phocus|Phocus_Review]]. My hit-rate for good drinks at the Dollar Tree has
been about 50:50 so far.
