[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Black Rifle Energy Ranger Berry"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

I've been aware of Black Rifle Coffee company for some time, as a producer of
canned ready-to-drink coffee. I'm a fan of their coffee, at least the canned
stuff, because they have minimal sugar. Actually they sell one that's just black
coffee. I like that. What I _didn't_ expect is for them to do is to ape into the
already-hot market of carbonated energy drinks. What a move!

Also look at this thing on their homepage:

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreided7pb5qsbcqdqw3qtubx4dr2ipwvh47ee3nspliucyo3hfwhp5a" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Just what _is_ that thing?</figcaption>
</figure>

They have four flavors available at the moment in colorways that remind me of
the Power Rangers. What I have today is _Ranger Berry_.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibsw5agpjs7pnsd6ceupan7iuayoo53iqe7logoiia7z3eq2ykcn4" size=medium]]
</figure>

Surprise! The _Berry_ in _Ranger Berry_ is blue raspberry! My favorite
non-existent fruit. The blue on the can should tip us off about this. The flavor
profile is quite empty, vapid, muted; beyond the citric acid that hits my tongue
in the front of the taste there is a only a ghostly, lingering taste of
artificial _blue_. It has more vigor than [[Black_Rifle_Energy_Wild_Frost]] but
it's still a flaccid, understated flavor.

We've all been conditioned to expect how blue things in packages and cans should
taste; the ghostly taste of _Ranger Berry_ is no different: blue sno-cones. Blue
ICEE pops. Blue ramune. Blue Jolly Ranchers. Anything died bright blue with the
[[!wikipedia Brilliant_blue_FCF]] dye. They are playing you like a fucking
fiddle, boy.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Volume | 16floz |
| Caffeine | 200mg |
| Calories | 10cal |
| Niacin | 16mg |
| Vitamin B6 | 1.7mg |
| Vitamin B12 | 2.4mcg |
| Biotin | 30mcg |
| Panthothenic Acid | 5mg |
| Potassium | 30mg |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lmiox2cmkk26"]]
