[[!tag Diary]]

Every day it's getting harder to get bored; some day soon the opportunity to
become bored may be eliminated all together, if that has not already happened.

Given a room full of people doing nothing it takes no more than 8.25 seconds for
half the crowd to pick up their phone and tap the screen aimlessly; anything to
make the deafening quiet go away. That's not to say that scrolling around the
Web is not useful but, anecdotally, when I find myself doing the same thing, I
feel exactly the same as when I started nervously fidgeting with my phone, only
that I've been transported 5 minutes into the future with nothing to show for it
but a brief boost of knowledge about a border conflict in some far-away region,
that's almost never relevant to me, and that I will completely forget about in a
month or two. Your phone is a blackhole; there are people who are paid
handsomely to replace dusty corners of your brain with impulses to purchase
products and services.

I still do idly click around sometimes when I'm doing nothing else or waiting on
something, but I'm getting better about it. Like with correcting upper-body
posture, rejecting the impulse to grab your phone is just something you actively
need to do until it becomes a passive part of your behavior. The fact I reach
for my phone sometimes still when I'm actively becoming bored is an artifact of
my programming, a burnt-in, stubborn neuropathway which I am actively working to
starve out and kill.

There's no external reward for doing this; actually it will probably socially
isolate you even more. If you're not at least up-to-date on who is shooting who
in the Middle-East and if you're completely ignorant of which color uniform won
the football game last Sunday then you surely don't know who said what on which
podcast that made this one guy claim that this other person is worth cancelling.
And what's the point of office gossip if you have no common thing to talk about?
Nobody will ever tell you “Congratulations!” because they probably aren't
looking at you anyway.

Still, I prefer to kick my feet back and forth sitting on a bench than to stare
into the empty space between my face and my hands. It's much more calming.
Headlines induce fear and reduce opinions into simple categories, not because
journalists are intentionally sabotaging you, but because that's what they've
found leads to an increase in their click-through rate and ad views and blah
blah blah, you _can_ blame the market for this but this is not a fact you could
fix even if you blew the ads market off the face of the earth. It's a part of
_our programming_, these platforms just exploit it, regardless of their
well-meaning intent, claims of unbiased journalists, or even non-profit status.
They are competing for mindshare and will eat you alive if you let them, which
was true before the Internet but now is especially true, when the amount of
information available to you at any one time is measured in terabytes, not in
the pages of a magazine or a newspaper; the increase in supply made the
attention economy much more competitive.

I enjoy journaling, [[drawing]], and thinking in boring spaces. Sometimes
observing stupid architectural quirks or other environmental goings-ons makes me
smile too, and though I hardly recall the details a day later it makes me a
little happier, vaguely, even if I don't remember exactly why.

People used to live every day like this; why not try it for ten minutes?
