[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — C4 Jolly Rancher Green Apple"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

C4 is an energy drink you should probably only drink before exercise. At least
for me, it makes me want to run and jump. It has beta-alanine in it, a
non-essential amino acid that can cause paresthesia, a funny tingling sensation
on the skin. I'm sensitive to beta-alanine. Some people are not. At first I
didn't know what the fuck was going on and why I felt itchy and restless. It can
be uncomfortable, especially if you are not used to the sensation. The tingling
absolutely increases my drive to exercise harder but it's unclear if it actually
lets me go harder or if I just feel tingly. Many pre-workouts have beta-alanine
so it should be no surprise C4 was originally just a pre-workout powder, first
hitting shelves in 2011.

From my research online it seems Sour Apple Jolly Rancher was released somewhere
around September or October 2024. Their first energy drink ever was launched on
April 30 2018. Truly visionary.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihfo4wnpoqtmhpmw4xhvixv4e2bxtxv7ehnpqtd7i72rkaxxkvqeq" size=medium]]
</figure>

The taste of this one is dead-on accurate to the taste of a green Jolly Rancher,
I recognize it even without having a Jolly Rancher in years; very easy to drink;
quite tart. Tastes like a green apple rolled in citric acid but surprisingly not
harsh.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 15cal |
| Caffeine | 200mg |
| Beta-alanine | Unclear |
