[[!meta title="Energy Drink — C4 Jolly Rancher Blue Raspberry"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Blue raspberry is an invented fruit. Isn't it funny we all know how it tastes
when it's not even real? Regardless we've looked at a few blue raspberry
flavored drinks on this site, a few have blue raspberry shamelessly in the name:
[[Ashoc_Blue_Raspberry]] and [[Ghost_Energy_x_Sour_Patch_Kids_Blue_Raspberry]].
Many more are flavored (and colored) to emulate that distinct blue sno-cone
flavor.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidodd4yydq6oytznfwbs63z2fy4c2yepqczkemhilyo7jglwsrzea" size=medium]]
</figure>

C4 Jolly Rancher Blue Raspberry is a mild blue raspberry flavor. Compared to
those mentioned above the flavor is mild and clean. Easy to drink. A bit sour on
the finish but otherwise not tasting too artificial. *Mmm, smooth*.

I bet this would be amazing if it were an ice slush, as its flavor does remind
me of a sno cone with a very light amount of syrup. The side of the can says "do
not freeze". That's what gave me the idea.

The beta alanine (branded betaPOWER, a registered trademark of [[!wikipedia
DuPont desc="Wikipedia:DuPont"]]) in C4 hits me like a freight train every time.
I drink [[Bucked_Up|Bucked_Up_Miami]] and believe I've microdosed my way out of
a beta alanine allergy but, C4 reminds me, I still get very tingly after
drinking these. This is the intended effect of course: C4 is "energy you can
feel", that's the whole gimmick. Beta alanine may improve athletic performance
in endurance running [^1] though this was supplementation at 5g over 3 weeks. So
the gains of beta alanine had by drinking a single can are psychological at
best. Caffeine is the heavy lifter.

But the tingles are weird and fun. For me it is a full-body effect and can be
confusingly itchy, especially around my face and lower torso. It makes me want
to run or lift. Anything but sit down.

So don't have a C4 sitting down unless you do not have the beta alanine allergy.
Which surprisingly not everyone has. Only one way to find out!

[^1]: [https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6092497/](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6092497/)

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 0cal |
| Caffeine | 200mg |
| Beta-alanine | Unclear |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3luxzpddv2s2o"]]
