[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — Celsius Raspberry Açaí + Green Tea"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Gee bill, your mom lets you have _two_ health gimmicks, raspberry açaí _and_
green tea? Yes, if you get the Celsius <span style="color:tomato">Raspberry
Açaí</span> <span style="color:springgreen">+ Green Tea</span> you too can
drink deep of these superfoods that are in about every health food these days.
Well, it actually doesn't have açaí in it; just natural flavors that are
intended to mimic it. The ingredients list supports that it does have some
amount of green tea extract, however.

<figure>
<figcaption>Did someone say [green
tea](https://youtu.be/wo62NTsqcUg)?</figcaption>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicu2dzs4owifct4bhtah6oi3k6mk5ebrqaynj4prlvf6atstagsfe" size=medium]]
</figure>

This drink is somewhat sour in a very contrived way. Not like citric acid sour
but something else, something far less intense. Like in the way grapefruits are
somewhat sour, it makes the insides of my mouth feel dry. It's really weird.
The texture is novel and not something I've had from really any other
off-the-shelf drink. It's not overpowering at all or hardly remarkable unless
you're thinking about it critically but it's noticable. I really can't nail down
what that is on the ingredients list.

The taste is very clean and not like an energy drink at all; only that weird
sourness betrays the drink's artificial nature. It's not carbonated, which
bolsters that image. Honestly, almost all the way through it is like drinking
still water a dash of citric and ascorbic acids thrown in and finished with the
vague flavor of fruit. The final note on my tongue is redolent of a strawberry
though I could be convinced it was raspberry.

It has 1000% of the recommended daily intake of biotin (B7), a vitamin that
plays an important role in the body to metabolize fats, carbohydrates, and amino
acids. And you wouldn't want to be deficient in biotin. Didn't you know that a
biotin deficiency can be fatal?

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Volume | 12floz |
| Caffeine | 200mg |
| Calories | 10cal |
| Calcium | 50mg |
| Vitamin C | 60mg |
| Riboflavin | 1.7mg |
| Niacin | 20mg |
| Vitamin B6 | 2mg |
| Vitamin B12 | 6mcg |
| Biotin | 300mcgmg |
| Panthotenic Acid | 10mg |
| Chromium | 50mcg |
