Cookout is a chain burger joint with stores on the Southeast US seaboard, with
the most stores in North Carolina, where it was founded in 1989. It is a
legendary store and one of the best fast-food places I know of. In addition to
burgers they have chicken sandwiches, quesadillas, hot dogs, wraps, barbeque,
fries, cheese curds and 40+ flavors of milkshakes. For reviews of these
milkshake flavors by themselves you should visit
[cookoutmilkshakereviews.com](http://cookoutmilkshakereviews.com/). From their
website:

> It’s the hot glow of electric freedom. It’s a blazing sentry of liberty. It’s the neon sign across the street that reads COOK OUT — and those are tears in your eyes.<br/>
> To dine at Cook Out is to be presented a dazzling, dizzying array of choices. There are endless meal combinations — including the option to order a quesadilla or chicken wrap as a side — because this truly is the land of the free, the home of the tray.

Cookout is best enjoyed on the hood of a car or in the bed of a truck. Some
institutions have outdoor seating which is great, but newer ones (at least the
new one near me) lack outdoor seating. Indoor seating should be avoided at all
costs.

The Menu and Min-maxing
-----------------------

The menu triptych is daunting. The bravest people I know freeze up like
Microsoft Windows ME under memory pressure when they see it. Don't worry, it's
actually easy to order at a Cookout.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreierm2x3rm76z2grbbi4jr3hrd2imhvxiiiwkcyuprx6rbn6xzyjli" size=medium]]
</figure>

You're going to want to get the Cookout Tray. This means you are following the
red strip at the top, left to right, starting where it says *CHOOSE 1 FOR TRAY*.
So, pick something from under that heading. The regular hamburger, big double
burger[^1], and regular barbeque burger are all good choices. You can get the burger
with any of the sides listed on the left triptych where it says _CHOICE OF_ or
you can select one of the _styles_ to make it easier. They're all pretty good.

Then, continuing along the top, you can select any 2 of the sides listed under
_CHOOSE 2 SIDES or DOUBLE UP_. Don't get the walkin' taco. I think they ran out
of space because you can also order from the sides listed in the middle panel
under _QUESADILLAS AND SIDES_.

Finally, for the drink you can get anything, or a milkshake for an extra $1.60.
And when it comes to milkshakes, you can order any of the 40+ flavors and
optionally combine as many as you want. I know a guy who gets a mint snickers
cherry and peanut butter shake. Incomprehensible behavior. But accepted as a
valid order.

There is an art to discovering your perfect order. It is trial-and-error. It is
fluid over time. For instance, I only recently was informed that regular
hamburger trays and Big Double trays have the same amount of meat on the burger.
This affected my order and consequently the course of my life to come.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiffs7umx6vf37gndnffookhtbfk4k5tywinlrhvsl2uxd2znbneti" size=medium]]
<figcaption>There is beauty everywhere for those with eyes to see it<br/>Big
double tray with grilled onions and jalapenos; okra and jalapeno cheese fries;
bottled water</figcaption>
</figure>

Classic:

- Big double tray cheddar style
- Ranch wrap and cajun fries
- Huge tea

My Go-to:

- Regular burger tray with grilled onions and jalapenos
- Cajun fries and okra[^2]
- Either an unsweet tea or a snickers cobbler[^3] milkshake #eatbigtogetbig

Forbidden "Quesadilla Boy" Tray:

- 2 chicken quesadilla tray
- 2 chicken quesadillas as sides
- Cheerwine

[^1]: The Big Double and regular hamburger are the same amount of meat, this
    just determines if it is split between two patties or just one. Regular
    hamburger is more savory, Big Double is going to be charred more because of
    the extra surface area.

[^2]: Not all stores have okra but if they do I'm making damn sure to get it.
    For instance, the location with the menu pictured above does not have okra.

[^3]: Snickers cobbler is the snickers milkshake with the cobbler part of the
    peach cobbler milkshake mixed in. It's actually easy for them to input
    because there is a "cobbler" button they press that you could add to any
    milkshake. Peach cobbler is just a special case peach + cobbler.

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3ln56i33w2s2h"]]
