I often relax and explore my mood through music. Beginning in late 2019 I began to
DJ'ing exclusively & *anonymously* under the moniker **DJR3**. I use that
identity now as as a pseudonym only when I DJ and when I play music fitting
these these non-exclusive genre tags:

+ Hardstyle, Hardcore
+ Nightcore, Nightstyle, Happy Hardcore
+ Neorave
+ Drum and Bass
+ French House

I've performed more in [[Virtual Reality]] than I have in real-life, though
often my sets are hybrids of VR + IRL. I explore unconventional, real-time
settings, like throwing interactive, VR raves in *Garry's Mod*, a video game
released in 2006. Actually I coded a gamemode for Garry's Mod called [STREAM
STAGE](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2067726690)
expressely for this, if only because I was curious if it could be done. It *can*
be done and I have done it many times.

Here are all videos of the sets I have played which I have archived:

Apr 15, 2023 — HOWLAR.SPACE
---------------------------

[[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/w6aqSncIJ58) / [Download]()]

June 18, 2022 — MILLENNIUM STRIKE: E3 PRESS CONFERENCE — EP7
------------------------------------------------------------

[[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/HOxVTD_PzsQ) / [Download]()]

Mar 26, 2021 — EVA Online Presents: Synesthesia #009
--------------------------------------------------

[[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/gEpmLXdssUA) /
[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2021/%5BDJR3%5D%20%5BVR%2CAR%5D%20Synesthesia%20009.mp4)]

<figure class=image-square>
[[!img img/djr3-poster-synesthesia-009.jpeg]]
[[!img img/djr3-synesthesia-009.jpeg]]
</figure>

I did this set entirely in VR and never took my HMD off for any bit of it. The
game may look like VRChat but it's actually Garry's Mod with VRMod, which gives
this 15+ year-old game VR support. I wrote a gamemode called
[STREAMSTAGE](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=2067726690)
to accomodate streaming audio to all users in the server so every in the club
experiences the music together.

Unlike my previous Streamstage events, this time I taped a GoPro to my head and
fed the video stream into my HMD. Doing so I was able to coordinate my hand
movements to control the DJ controller on the piano stand in front of me. You
can see the exact feed from the GoPro in the upper right hand corner of the
video screen. The orange-y color is from an OBS filter I applied to it but
that's exactly what I saw in the Quest. It was a little difficult to check my
phone (for instance) but it all worked well in the end.  This creates a fairly
seamless AR / VR DJ experience, assuming you have enough USB ports to do all
this bullshit.

The Mixxx feed (the DJ software I use) also was piped into the headset so I
could select and cue tracks in real time. Any time you see me stare into the
middle-distance or a little above my controller during the set I'm cueing the
next track or checking audio levels. Instead of Quest audio (which can be
nightmarish sometimes) I plugged a pair of headphones into the 3.5mm jack on the
front of my computer and used those as my cues, while my room speakers
(connected to a USB audio interface coming from the PC) played the game audio
which was captured in the final render. This eliminated the latency problems
I've experienced in previous sets, and let me move in-time with what everyone in
the server (and everyone in the stream) saw!

I'm so glad we had a bunch of people log on to the GMod server! I honestly
didn't expect so many friends in game, since this was part of a bigger event
which mostly played out on Twitch.

1. SHSTR - Exodus
2. Moris Blak - Hereditary
3. Unholy - Ego Sum Deus
4. CABLE x F?THR - ANGEL TEETH
5. Garçons - Tartarus
6. Gesaffelstein - Zzafrika (Gesaffelstein Rmx)
7. GasteL - Rene
8. Pedestrian Tactics - Kernel Panic
9. JOYRYDE - IM GONE
10. Masayoshi Iimori - Flow
11. Expulze - Mind Control (Original Mix)
12. DJ Sharpnel - TOKI-MEKI GABBAREAL (tanigon)
13. Boy 8-Bit - Fogbank
14. Apashe;INSTASAMKA - Uebok (feat. Instasamka) (Russian Jump Up Mafia)
15. Trance Generator - Chaos (The Yofridiz Remix)
16. S3RL - Doof Doof Untz Untz (Weaver Remix)
17. Shaun Baker/Seaside Clubbers - DUP DUP (Danceboy German Remix)
18. East Clubbers - East Clubbers - Drop
19. MALIXE - All Is None
20. Nhato - Forbidden Souls
21. Shifter Feat. S3RL - Hardcore Is The Place
22. SHSTR - Destroy The Creator
23. Minamotoya - Alpenglow

Jan 8, 2021 — VRChat DJs United x EVA DIMENSIONAL COLLAPSE
----------------------------------------------------------

[[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/i7vGk5dUW7c) /
[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2021/%5BDJs%20United%20X%20EVA%5D%20%5BVRCHAT%5D%20DJR3%20DIMENSIONAL%20COLLAPSE.mp4)]

<figure class=image-square>
[[!img img/djr3-poster-djs-united-eva-dimensional-collapse.jpeg]]
[[!img img/djr3-djs-united-eva-dimensional-collapse.jpeg]]
</figure>

DIMENSIONAL COLLAPSE was a party in VRChat organized by DJ's United and
featuring collaboration with EVA Online to celebrate the release of [R O C K Y's
Euphoria EP](https://soundcloud.com/rockymusic339/sets/euphoria-ep). This was
by far the longest time I'd ever spent consecutively in VR, by the end of it
we'd been talking and dancing and playing music for something like 7 hours. My
trackers died twice and my headset and right controller were nearly dead at the
end but it was an extremely fun night.

I'd like to do VR events / crossovers like this more often. The nice thing about
games like VRChat or Garry's Mod is that you can play them with a headset or
just on keyboard, there were plenty of people that night doing either. Just
having everyone in the same "virtual" room creates such a warm and close
atmosphere despite being maybe thousands of miles away from many of the people
there. There's feeling of closeness, especially in VR where you can see
everyone's body language, that makes experiences like this very special to me.

1. Zeds Dead - Nostalgia
2. Tessela - Let Up
3. Kode 9 - Uh
4. Lone - Dragonrush
5. Geoxor - Moneko
6. Marina and the Diamonds - Lies (Zeds Dead Remix)
7. kittynxc - T3LL U
8. JOYRIDE - On Fire
9. Machinedrum and Holly - Berry Patch
10. Special Request - Fett
11. Sully - Swandive
12. DMVU - Bloccd
13. Silkie - Limits
14. Shandy Kubota - Spin Out (aran Remix)
15. ♥ GOJII ♥ - SPELLBOUND
16. S3RL & Filthy Frank - Dumbass Statuses
17. Manian - Hold Me Tonight (Nightcore Edit)
18. Wildstylez and Sound Run ft. Ruby Prophet - Untamable (Tweekacore Remix)
19. Hommarju - Reboot
20. LektriQue, Mightnight CVLT - Full Throttle
21. Proxy & Autodidakt - Action Jackson
22. Teddyloid - Jumping Mole (Nerdcore Switch)
23. Manga & Dta - Riddim
24. SHOCKONE - Follow Me
25. Skepsis - Goes Like (The Prototypes Remix)
26. Current Value - That Smile
27. Metrik - Hackers
28. GRRL - Rally
29. Netsky, Urbandawn - Power
30. S3RL - 9 Bars of Ecuador
31. Rawtek & Bellorum - Money Call
32. ALRT & Callum Higby - Feel My NRG
33. Radical Redemption & Nonsens - Beat Hotel
34. The Avalanches - Interstellar Love

Dec 11, 2020 — Streamstage Dec.11.2020.GMod.VR.DJ
-------------------------------------------------

[[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/H8093iYalM8) /
[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2020/%5BStreamstage%5D%5BDJR3%5D%20Dec.11.2020.mp4)]

Oct 24, 2020 — STREAMSTAGE Virtual-Reality Audiovisual Experience
-----------------------------------------------------------------

[[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/6U7CYY2QRrY) /
[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2020/Steamstage%20Oct.%2024.mp4)]

Jun 28, 2020 — EVA Online Presents: Synesthesia #002
----------------------------------------------------

[[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2020/%5BVIP%5D%20%5BMIXED%20REALITY%5D%20Synesthesia%20EVA_0nline%20x%20DJR3.mp4)]

Jun 6, 2020 — [Week 2] Club Howler Virtual Rave & TTT
-----------------------------------------------------

[[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/xZ_q44V44h4) /
[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2020/%5BWeek%202%5D%20Club%20Howler%20%26%20TTT-DJR3.mp4)]

May 9, 2020 — End of Howler: One More Final: Thank You
------------------------------------------------------

[[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/GqAUwMvmwNI) /
[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2020/End-Of-Howler-DJR3.mp4)]

Jan 25, 2020 — NEUROTiC
-----------------------

[[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2020/NEUROTiC-DJR3.webm)]

Jan 1, 2020 — DECENNIUM 202X: New Year's Eve Event
--------------------------------------------------

[[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2020/2020-01-01-DECENNIUM-202X.webm)]

Nov 23, 2019 — Subsystem 20XX
-----------------------------

[[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2019/2019-11-23-SUBSYSTEM20XX.webm)]

Aug 17, 2019 — Howler Presents...
---------------------------------

[[Download](https://cdn.wesl.ee/DJR3/sets/2019/2019-08-17-howler-presents.mp4)]

