[[!tag Productivity]]

Neovim is powerful. Large language models are powerful. Recently I've combined
these two with [`model.nvim`](https://github.com/gsuuon/model.nvim) (formerly
`LLM.nvim`); I have seen amazing results.

<figure>
<video autoplay muted controls>
<source src="https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreiekwg37vztefed2nywl2w36uzpe7vldb5dk3tlpr46t5loah6vbim"/>
</video>
<figcaption>Demo in the style of an old YouTube tutorial minus Notepad and the WMM title card 🔊🆙</figcaption>
</figure>

Introduction
------------

My work sponsored a Copilot license for me earlier this year and that spoiled
me. Having actually decent text completion in addition to neovim's LSP
suggestions made the tedious bits of programming a breeze. Normally I'm not a
fan of ghost text but Copilot's is quite nice.

I began wondering if I could emulate this same thing on my personal desktop
experience as I bought a 3090 a few months ago to tinker with stable-diffusion
and bigger LLMs locally. `model.nvim` came up during my research and I explored
the plugin thoroughly. There were a few other plugins claiming to offer access
to LLMs but `model.nvim` seemed to be the simplest and easiest to hack.

`model.nvim` lacked an interface for Langserve / Langchain [so I added
that](https://github.com/gsuuon/model.nvim/pull/41). Langchain lets you create
complex chains of LLMs, each operating on the output of the model before it in
the chain. In my case I wanted to query a chain with access to a Vectorstore of
my personal wiki to attempt to write in my style and to generally act as an
editor of my work. Unfortunately the results were disappointing, more on that
later.

Configuring `model.nvim` with Lua
---------------------------------

This is not so weird but configures some keystrokes to invoke my models. One
difference from this and Copilot is that the model is not automatically queried,
instead relying on these keymaps to invoke the model. This means you need to be
in normal mode when querying, which can get weird during coding!

I found it easiest to press `<C-o>` while in insert mode which lets you execute
one normal mode command after which the editor returns to insert mode. So in my
case where I have `<leader>` mapped to the space bar I press `<C-o> <leader>lc`
to invoke a locally-hosted Langchain chain powered by
`codellama-13b.Q5_K_M.gguf` offering fill-in-the-middle capability for wherever
my cursor is at the time on invokation.

Anyway here is the config:

[[!syntax type="lua" text="""
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>ld', ':Mdelete<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>lj', ':Mselect<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>lq', ':Mcancel<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>ls', ':Mshow<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>ll', ':Model langserve:general-instruct<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>lr', ':Model langserve:rewriting-assistant<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>lc', ':Model langserve:codellama-coding-assistant<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>tj', ':Model langserve:translator-jp-en<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>te', ':Model langserve:translator-en-jp<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>cj', ':Mchat openai<cr>')
vim.keymap.set({'n', 'v'}, '<leader>cc', ':Mchat<cr>')

local starters = require('model.prompts.starters')
local langserve = require('model.providers.langserve')
local llm = require('model')
local prompts = require('model.util.prompts')

require("model").setup((function()
    local langchain_endpoint = 'http://127.0.0.1:8000/'

    return {
    hl_group = 'Comment',
    prompts = {
      ['langserve:translator-jp-en'] = {
        provider = langserve,
        options = {
          base_url = langchain_endpoint .. 'translator/',
          output_parser = langserve.chat_generation_chunk_parser
        },
        builder = function(input, context)
          return {
            input_language = "english",
            output_language = "japanese",
            text = input,
          }
        end
      },
      ['langserve:translator-en-jp'] = {
        provider = langserve,
        options = {
          base_url = langchain_endpoint .. 'translator/',
          output_parser = langserve.chat_generation_chunk_parser
        },
        builder = function(input, context)
          return {
            input_language = "japanese",
            output_language = "english",
            text = input,
          }
        end
      },
      ['langserve:codellama-coding-assistant'] = {
        provider = langserve,
        options = {
          base_url = langchain_endpoint .. 'codellama-coding-assistant/',
          output_parser = langserve.generation_chunk_parser
        },
        builder = function(input, context)
          local surrounding_text = prompts.limit_before_after(context, 30)
          local selection = ""
          if context.selection then -- we only use input if we have a visual selection
            selection = input
          end
          return {
            before = surrounding_text.before,
            after = surrounding_text.after,
            selection = selection,
            filename = context.filename,
          }
        end,
        mode = llm.mode.INSERT_OR_REPLACE,
      },
      ['langserve:writing-assistant'] = {
        provider = langserve,
        options = {
          base_url = langchain_endpoint .. 'writing-assistant/',
          output_parser = langserve.chat_generation_chunk_parser,
        },
        builder = function(input, context)
          return {
            text = input,
          }
        end
      },
      ['langserve:general-instruct'] = {
        provider = langserve,
        options = {
          base_url = langchain_endpoint .. 'general-instruct/',
          output_parser = langserve.chat_generation_chunk_parser,
        },
        builder = function(input, context)
          return {
            text = input,
          }
        end
      },
      ['langserve:rewriting-assistant'] = {
        provider = langserve,
        options = {
          base_url = langchain_endpoint .. 'rewriting-assistant/',
          output_parser = langserve.chat_generation_chunk_parser,
        },
        builder = function(input, context)
          return {
            text = input,
          }
        end,
        mode = llm.mode.REPLACE,
      },
    },
} end)())
"""]]

Obviously how `langchain_endpoint` is configured doesn't let me use this on any
computer without the 3090 in it, but I'm still working on a solution to that!

Problems
--------

One problem I encountered while using `model.nvim` with my personal wiki was the
disappointing results it produced. Despite my efforts to create a complex chain
of language models using Langchain, the output did not meet my expectations. The
generated text did not accurately reflect my writing style, and it struggled to
effectively edit or act as an editor of my work.

The problem is that models trained for general tasks suck hard at emulating
an arbitrary writing style. Even when describing my style and supplying several
samples with relevant material using a `Vectorstore` of my personal wiki the
model is unable to write in a style that doesn't just read like a generic
content-farm. I've varied the prompt so many times and have not found any
settings satisfactory for editing or generating anything that sounds like me.

Likely the solution to this problem involves training a model locally using
the llama2 model I use right now as a base for transfer learning.

[[!template id="warning" text="""
Funnily enough I completely forgot the phrase “transfer
learning” while drafting the above paragraph. I still knew what I wanted
to describe, however, so I consulted an instruction-tuned LLM for the answer right
from Neovim. I have not rigged chatting in `model.nvim` up to my Langchain chains
yet so this is using `gpt-3.5-turbo-1106` from OpenAI. Quick conversations like
this have largely replaced Googling for simple things like this for me. It's
surprising how much more convenient and accurate it is, even with tasks one
would expect it not to excel at. Below wallpaper source is
[@vinneart](https://twitter.com/vinneart/status/1701710930483011588).
<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihogzaxott5zqvff662ryaufbqfunqpvxlwhcaizcggiyru7amoz4" size="medium"]]
</figure>
"""]]

Configuring Langserve + Langchain
---------------------------------

I'm not posting my whole langchain repo because it's a bit of a mess but here is
how a chain (my code assistant for instance) is served with Langserve.

[[!syntax type="python" text="""
# main.py

from fastapi import FastAPI
from langserve import add_routes
from chain import LlmChains

app = FastAPI(title="Retrieval App")

llm_chains = LlmChains()
add_routes(app, llm_chains.chain_codellama_coding_assistant(), path="/codellama-coding-assistant")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    import uvicorn

    uvicorn.run(app, host='127.0.0.1')
"""]]

… and here is the Langchain side of things for the code assistant.

[[!syntax type="python" text="""
# chain.py
from langchain.llms import LlamaCpp
from langchain.prompts import PromptTemplate

DEFAULT_LLAMA_CODE_PROMPT = PromptTemplate(
    input_variables=["before", "after"],
    template=" <PRE> {before} <SUF>{after} <MID>"
)

class LlmChains:
    chat_codellama_llm = LlamaCpp(
        model_path="/home/wesl-ee/ai/llm-models/codellama-13b.Q5_K_M.gguf",
        temperature=0.2,
        repeat_penalty=1.1,
        max_tokens=4096,
        context=8192,
        n_gpu_layers=41,
        n_batch=512,
        f16_kv=True,
        verbose=True,
    )

    def chain_codellama_coding_assistant(self):
        return DEFAULT_LLAMA_CODE_PROMPT | self.chat_codellama_llm
"""]]

Codellama was actually trained on a 16k context window but I can't fit that
whole window into VRAM with this particular 13b model, so 8k it is :) When
offloading all layers to the GPU I see 56.20 tokens per second with these
parameters. I could afford to run some of this on CPU to nail that 16k context
window as I have a comical 76GiB of RAM available on this machine but CPU
inference is slower; I can comfortably load about half the layers on my 3090 if
I double the context window to 16k but that pulls my speed down to about 3.7
tokens per second for the same model. We are not even going to attempt to run
34b as that would require either a very tiny window or too much on the CPU.

In any case, the prompt template here, ` <PRE> {before} <SUF>{after} <MID>` took
me [so long to get right](https://tldr.wesl.ee/notice/Ad1o0MYlYfWCLnrPii) but
works well now, as long as I use the trick I showed earlier about entering the
`model.nvim` command in insert-normal mode with `<C-o>`.

So far, after a week of usage, I have blown a full $0.17 USD on OpenAI credits
for queries. A far better deal than paying for Copilot at $19 / mo or ChatGPT
Plus at $20 / mo.
