Yeah Exxon's a gas station. It's also the largest non-government-owned company
in the energy sector. But this is an article about their gas stations.

Big news: gas stations don't make money on gas. Margins on gas are razor
thin because competition is cutthroat and gas is one of those things Americans
are very sensitive about. Gas prices are determined by the oil market with
tolerance for regional variation given different supply-demand dynamics and
state taxes. Somehow people really care about a few cents when it comes to gas
but don't seem to mind buying an energy drink inside if they've already stopped.
The gas is there to get you inside.

I don't know if you've ever walked into a convenience store and _looked_ before.
Open your eyes. You'll find the craziest shit. Caffeine pills.
[[Bucked_Up_Miami]]. Weird energy drinks you may never have heard of like
[[Rip_Its|Rip_It_Tribute_Cherry_Lime]].
[[Tinned_Fish|Beach_Cliff_Fish_Steaks_in_Louisiana_Hot_Sauce]]. [[Cup
noodles|Tapatio_Cup_Original]]. A huge bag of homemade chicharrones for $2.
Churros, fried fish, breakfast biscuits. All of those I've seen in one or many
of the three Exxons near me. Exxons have the widest variance I've seen among gas
stations.

I enjoy patronizing these 3 Exxons because it seems Exxon gives the store owner
almost unlimited freedom with what they stock the store with. In contrast, BP,
Sheetz (duh), Shell to a lesser extent, are cleaner and have a more select
inventory. The same things that put people off of Exxons like the video lottery
machines, rhino dick pills and people asking you for money outside are the same
things gatekeeping you from discovery. In a time where more people than ever are
afraid to try new things for fear of the unknown it's no wonder
[[Why_Its_Easier_Than_Ever_To_Be_Better_Than_Average]].

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lrf54ta5ws2s"]]
