[[!tag Diary]]

A false dichotomy is the presentation of two options when more than two options
really exist. Outside of formal logic and math, dichotomies do not exist. All
choices which are strictly one-or-the-other are false. It is human nature to
reduce choices to one-or-the-other. Such reductions are useful, but not
accurate.

Example
-------

Here is an example of a false dichotomy that's commonly applied.

There is a notion that people are either _left-brained_ (logical,
detail-oriented) or _right-brained_ (creative, driven by intuition). This is
broadly true, and left-brain / right-brain categorization can be a useful tool to
sort people in instances like, say, while choosing high-school electives:
creative people should take an art class, and logical people should take a
computer class, because creative people like to do creative tasks and logical
people like to do logical tasks.

Everyone has a _natural tendency_ towards being left- or right- brained. That
fact doesn't preclude people from transcending the category. People do all the
time. Escape velocity is easy to achieve, with time and effort. Your
pre-disposition is not a curse of pre-destination.

Broadly, polymaths display this transencendence, and arguably it's what makes
them great at a wide variety of things. [[!wikipedia Albrecht_Dürer]] was a
great painter who [created a number of drawing
aids](https://blogs.unimelb.edu.au/librarycollections/2017/08/13/finding-durers-perspective/),
called perspective machines, to help artists draw and understand perspective
when the concept of perspective was still very new. [[!wikipedia
Richard_Feynman]] was a well-accomplished physicist, having developed quantum
electrodynamics and the self-named Feynman diagrams, who enjoyed playing the
bongos and who learned to draw around 1962, at the age of 44, for the reason he
states below:

> I wanted very much to learn to draw, for a reason that I kept to myself: I
> wanted to convey an emotion I have about the beauty of the world. It's
> difficult to describe because it's an emotion. It's analogous to the feeling
> one has in religion that has to do with a god that controls everything in the
> universe.

<figure>
<div>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibr2edmgqo6aydx6erweujiuit3ekkoey5ervabg7skem6pbbspke" size=medium]]
</div><div class="image-square">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreid2vjmoqckqxuyhtw2zclbfbwnvlklqimspa4mbf2nawm4263ho2q" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibve4r7t3v5qoswkewzjum6pwdez4kni6mhy2c5a72pqjassmjxdm" size=medium]]
</div>
<figcaption>Top: Engraving by Albrecht Dürer showing the perspective
machine<br/>Bottom: Two drawings by Richard Feynman</figcaption>
</figure>

Finally, there are the traditional examples of gifted men with wide expertise
like Ben Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and those guys they named the four
[[!wikipedia Teenage_Mutant_Ninja_Turtles]] after: Leonardo da Vinci, Donatello,
Raphael and Michelangelo.

The people enumerated here are all notable examples who defy reduction to a
left- / right- dichotomy, but all cases need not be famous, polymaths, or anyone
special.

Us Versus Them
--------------

One of the two reasons I understand dichotomies are constructed is to _other_
some group. To create an "us" and "them". This tactic is polarizing and maybe a
symptom of those wanting to incite [[!wikipedia Sensationalism]].

Anything that benefits from increased readership or viewership can benefit from
sensationalism because emotion, even anger, can drive the headlines that [do
iron man numbers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WFQK5eF_puo). Headlines
distilled from broad dichotomies and other generalities abound. Today this
tactic is practiced largely by online content creators because their income is
directly tied to audience click-through rate, viewership numbers, and how many
people follow that affiliate link in the description. Newspapers whose bottom
line is driven by subscriptions are less susceptible to this, thankfully,
because a one-off paywalled article with a really upsetting headline does not
meaningfully increase conversion. Online papers supported by advertising and
affiliate linking, however, bend the knee.

Just an observation. I try to avoid sensationalism by staying off the parts of
the Internet where it abounds, and by recognizing it when I see it and simply
not engaging. Blocking web elements with uBlock Origin has been very helpful in
scrubbing away comment sections and suggestions from YouTube when I just want to
watch a video about something I am interested in in peace.

Mind the Gap
------------

The other reason I've hinted at of why these dichotomies are constructed is: it
makes the world easier to reason about. And generally they're correct.

Most people fall neatly into a left- / right-brain dichotomy. Most people are
either male or female. Most people are strictly introverted or extroverted. Most
people are either leaders or followers. Most people see themselves as either one
or the other.

Few have the knowledge that the chains that bind them are artificial, that the
boundaries are arbitrary. Few care to cross the gap.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifjt6ncnzztnq4jd5mt6776uerfyovlzruph6sw2cdlz7kmmeuupe" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Another Feinman</figcaption>
</figure>
