[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — Ghost Energy x Faze Clan | Faze Pop"]]
[[!tag Review Energy_Drink]]

I'm really split on Ghost. On the one hand they make
[[a damn good sour watermelon|Ghost_Energy_x_Warheads_Sour_Watermelon]]… on the
other hand they also make Faze Pop. It's not very bad, but it doesn't stand out
as much as their other offerings. The Ghost generics like Citrus do not stand
out either.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiev2g5ftxpx2i2rnppr5fmg52s2thsfzd4e4skk5y36zchkis3ksa" size=medium]]
</figure>

There's nothing special about Faze Pop. It's meant to emulate the flavor of
those Rocket Pop freeze pops and popsicles and it does this pretty well, for the
red part of the popsicle at least. This is at the expense of being a
disappointing energy drink. It also misses out on the flavors of the blue and
white parts of the popsicle, which if they found a way to do this I'd be
impressed; that's an impossible task given that energy drinks are homogenous.


Impressions
-----------

An overwhelming cherry flavor immediately hits me, almost tasting as artifically
cherry as cherry Robitussin. The drink is not as viscous as Robitussin so
luckily the connection is not as strong but still perceptible. After this,
ephemeral notes of mango linger on the tongue. It doesn't taste like there is
much citric acid in this one but, common among Ghost's drinks, Faze Pop is
heavier on this element than most other energy drinks are, and if this is your
first Ghost you may be surprised at how acidic it tastes. Just know that there
are many Ghost drinks that hold no punches in the “this tastes battery acid”
department. Lacks the bite some Ghost flavors do.

Smells like artificial cherry, unsurprisingly.
