[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Ghost Energy x Sour Patch Kids | Blue Raspberry"]]
[[!tag Review Energy_Drink]]

Blue raspberry is my favorite non-existent fruit. Ghost is my favorite,
most accessible brand of energy drink at the moment. This is a match made in
heaven for me.

Ghost Energy overall is part of a larger trend I've noticed towards "clean"
energy drinks. Where energy drinks were full of sugar at one point in time,
these new flavors cut the carbs out in favor of artificial sweeteners. Ghost
also lacks artificial colors. Celsius is the earliest example I can give that
set this "clean" energy example. Their angle for a long time was that their
drinks cut the sugar and increased your body's thermogenesis to increase the
rate at which you burn fat. This is kind of true because caffeine makes you
twitchier and when you tap your foot or drum you fingers this net increases your
Non Exercise Activity Thermogenesis (NEAT) but it's not targeting fat in
particular. Ghost makes no such claim like Celsius did but the core idea of
clean, healthy energy is the same.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreid62yicty5hjqbfovwl52pttazxvr6aijpiwrjioe43cuozglddie" size=medium]]
</figure>

Signature of almost every can from Ghost, the taste of this drink starts with a
mad hit of citric acid. Particular to this blue raspberry one, though, the bold,
sour taste slowly evaporates into a pleasant, tart taste of blueberry. There is
fine carbonation throughout, etching a smooth texture that contrasts sharply
with the overbearing sour taste. Every ounce of it is great.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 5cal |
| Caffeine | 200mg |
