[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Ghost Energy x Warheads | Sour Black Cherry"]]
[[!tag Review Energy_Drink]]

Warheads were big when I was a kid. They were one of the few sour candies that
were actually painful to eat. The individually wrapped candies came in variety
of flavors, each with its own distinct colored wrapper. Green was apple, pink
was watermelon, blue was blue raspberry, yellow was lemon, and burgandy-black
was black cherry. The black cherry was by far the most sour, most painful, most
craziest thing you could eat to satisfy a dare. Just looking at the candy now
makes my mouth pucker. They still sell this candy but it just doesn't hit the
same anymore. They taste the same but I've gotten older and am not as interested
in impressing my friends with how much pain I can inflict on myself by throwing
a fuckload of [sour candy](https://youtu.be/Fc2qWBIToKU) in my mouth. It _still_
is a fun party trick, in spite of this.

Today, I have in my hands a present-day take on the black cherry I remember so
vividly, a collaboration between Ghost Energy and Warheads, an energy drink with
200mg of caffeine branded _Sour Black Cherry_. Ghost has done two other Warheads
collaborations, [[Sour Watermelon|Ghost_Energy_x_Warheads_Sour_Watermelon]] and
Sour Green Apple. Black Cherry is the most recent addition to the Warheads
lineup.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigdpbhjrgxiijp3okdmiv7dnlng7cx5xlph2jpjhf7iskownfdy2u" size=medium]]
</figure>

It immediately makes my mouth pucker and makes it feel like my mouth is being
dissolved and corroded. It's stupid sour. On the aftertaste it tastes like
artificial cherries, up front it's just pure sour. By far it's the most sour
Ghost I've had, and trust me, they're all pretty sour. Not for the faint of
heart, and arguably the least refreshing one. It confuses me how they seem to
want to maintain themselves as a preworkout energy drink yet all their flavors
are super sour so not very refreshing.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 15cal |
| Caffeine | 200mg |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3llrm7d4wa22b"]]
