[[!tag Review]]

There are so many grape-flavored drinks in the world. I picked up this
grape-flavored soda at the HMart near me. It is produced by the Hata Kōsen
company (ハタ鉱泉株式会社) in Ōsaka.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihr7taou534wd4v2wie7t6lismjg3efzarlscedbeqijlsuut5b3i" size=medium]]
</figure>

The can itself seems to want to emulate an aluminum bottle of premium iced Boss
coffee with its silver finish and twist top. But it's definitely a plastic
bottle, and the livery only goes most of the way up. It is also weirdly rigid
and difficult to bend along the contour which tapers towards the top of the
bottle, beyond the livery. I'm not a material science guy so I can't tell you
beyond that I think it's weird and that I noticed it.

My first impression after tasting this drink is that it's carbonated: very
bubbly (バブリー) and aggressively sour on the front note. Considering citric
acid is listed even on the EN label this is not surprising. But this impression
only lasts a moment. There is a fleeting echo of artificial grape. It lasts only
a second or two and is immediately overtaken by a very mild, underwhelming
finish. Not a fan.

I'm surprised that a single bottle has 42g of sugar since it has such an
ethereal, artificial taste. Even in the face of such empty calories I do
appreciate that this soda is not sticky like many other drinks with so much
sugar. It tastes light even though it is not.

Considering there's no upside to this drink beyond, I dunno, being carbonated, I
can't recommend it at all. You can call it a modern take on ramune minus the
nostalgia and the glass ball. But considering these are the *only* two things
that make ramune stand out this little soda thing has almost nothing going for
it.
