This site belongs to Wesley Coakley, also known on the Internet as **wesl-ee** and
locally known simply as [[Me]] (´ ∀ ` *)

<figure class="profile">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiav7g4jprel7pbrwjokh4pgxgxyo4thsks5mtwy2gbrythdrtv2wa" size=medium]]
<figcaption>
A [[drawn|Drawing]] self-portrait
</figcaption>
</figure>

You are reading my homepage & [[Personal_Wiki]]; nothing is off-topic here! The
big blue links [[like this one|Me]] will lead you further down the rabbit-hole
of this site so click as many of those as you can to learn more! Approach pages
on this site as if they are Wikipedia articles, and click relevant large blue
links to read the related article.

I am the only one with write-access so all opinions are my own and all
information here can only be as correct as I am; this site is generated with
love and [[!iki ikiwiki]] and collects much of my writing, ranging from
full-length write-ups to thoughts I have throughout the day. It is my personal
knowledge base and also the manifestation of my character on the
[Wired](https://sel.fandom.com/wiki/The_Wired).

I still haven't filled out many of the pages on this site but if you'd like to
start exploring my personal wiki some the best way is to read a little about
[[Me]] because that's who's writing this!

[[!linkmap pages="(Me
or North_Carolina_State_University
or Japanese
or Sophia_University
or Digital_Money
or Coffee
or BMW_318ti
) and !index"]]

Here are some of the topics I write about here. Larger text means I've written
more about that topic.

[[!pagestats show="Title" pages="Discover/*
    and !Discover/Energy_Drink
    and !Discover/Sleepy_Supplements
    and !Discover/Review
    and !Discover/Instant_Noodles
"]]

All pages on this site are available in chronological order under the
[[Meta/New_Posts]] page.

What's New?
-----------

[[!inline  archive="yes" quick="yes" limit=8 pages="*
	and !(ikiwiki or ikiwiki/*)
	and !New_Posts
	and !img
	and !img/*
	and !*.css
	and !*.tmpl
	and !*.js
	and !vid
	and !vid/*
	and !pubkey.txt
	and !favicon.ico
	and !templates/*
	and !templates
	and !recentchanges
	and !smileys
	and !smileys/*
	and !wikiicons
	and !wikiicons/*
	and !shortcuts
	and !shortcuts/*
	and !Discover/*
	and !Discover
	and !DJR3/2019
	and !DJR3/2020
	and !DJR3/2021
	and !DJR3/2022
	and !DJR3/2023
	and !DJR3/2024
	and !DJR3/2025
	and !index"
]]

