[[!tag Japan]]

Japanese is a beautiful language. I'm not a linguist so I can't explain the
concepts very well, but there is an art to its ambiguity and its freedom of
expression. It's also a classified as a Category IV language ("super-hard
languages") by the US State department, meaning it is "exceptionally difficult
for native English speakers" so it's not just something you pick up over a
weekend.

I started learning this language independently during my first year of college.
At that time, I was really frustrated about one thing in particular; that one
thing was [[Anime]]. I was really mad about subtitles, because I had to rely on
*someone else* to assure me that these translations were accurate, which is not
something you can always guarantee with the rag-tag nature of fansubbing groups.
Sure, things are better than they were in the 90s, but fansubbing has always
been a dying profession because nobody is going to pay for your work and it can
be taxing / unfulfilling to do it on the side.

From this frustration grew my resolve to learn Japanese (spoken and written) by
the time I exited college, so I started grinding out hiragana / katakana and
picked up an [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/) deck and never looked back.
Eventually I started reading raw manga and even translated a few things myself,
siphoning new words I learned from the books I was reading into my Anki deck and
practicing them over and over and over.

This year I hope to take the JLPT for N1 fluency. Japanese fluency (not just
"conversational" fluency, but a healthy technical / vocational vocabulary too)
has been a long-term goal of mine, and having a certification to cement this
achievement is not just important to me but also in giving meaning to my
credibility as a Japanese speaker to my employer. Eventually I would like to use
this skill in the workplace, but I have not yet seen many opportunities to do
so.

Although I *had* started learning the language before I studied in Japan, I
really only started *learning* at a decent pace when I took a semester at
[[Sophia_University]] in Tōkyō. There I took my first actual Japanese
language course (I'd avoided the ones at my home university) and just by virtue
of living there I reinforced those concepts throughout the day. I much prefer
being immersed in that environment, it is so much easier to learn when you're
thinking, speaking and dreaming Japanese every single day.

If my major in college were more aligned with language learning or fluency I
would have dropped out instantly and enrolled in a school abroad. Even now, I
sometimes regret not having pushed this further or extending my study-abroad to
a full year, but I know I would have slipped farther behind in my degree studies
than I was already, as my semester in Tōkyō did not add any engineering credits
to my transcript. My hope now is to work my way into a role which lets me
both satisfy the advancement of my career as a software engineer in the
datacenter and permits me time to practice and nurture my Japanese skill,
hopefully in the same context.

The Method
----------

It can be really intimidating to pick up a new language but with enough
resolve and the right amount of determination, time is the only thing that can
stand in your way! I'm going to tell you how I started learning and how I'm
continuing to learn Japanese but this is in no way meant to be prescriptive.

Even before I began learning the language I was inspired to look more into it by
watching a ton of [Nama Sensei's Fucking Japanese
Lessons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oZEA54VJEdE). Namasensei is one of the
whitest people I've ever seen speak Japanese but the really cool thing to me was
that he made it all the way to Japan and was teaching English there at the time.
That was very motivational for me, because even if the lessons were not very
rich in content or even if his handwriting was atrocious his enthusiasm has
stuck with me ever since and I sometimes still go back and watch a few lessons
from time to time.

When I decided to approach this language, though, the first thing I did was to
learn hiragana and then katakana. Notably, I used
[RealKana](https://realkana.com/) for this task and consequently memorized both
alphabets in a few weeks. I practiced writing them by memory as I was learning
them, I felt this helped my retention and production. Learning the alphabet is a
non-neogitable first step, though, as knowing how to write even basic things is
requisite to advancing in any language. In many languages which anglophones may
be familiar with this is mostly taken for granted, however a theme of learning
*this* language is that easy things are hard and hard things take some time to
get used to.

[... more to come here]
