[[!meta title="Tinned Fish — King Oscar Atlantic Salmon in Extra Virgin Olive Oil with Lemon"]]
[[!tag Tinned_Fish Review]]

Salmon is one of the more reliable tinned fish. And it's a mild, non-divisive
taste that's hard to get wrong.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifaebmbwoun5bcdpvorhzdfpwotc52j2l5l7bxjub6jcfpdiipmly" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigcnkoqwhnr5jiaf7izztfa262mddncdvxizl5aeujd6zhd4yotpa" size=medium]]
</figure>

Immediately the lid on these jumps out. It's a little pull tab shearing the
aluminum that's somehow been mated to the tin. Weird, but okay.

The taste also stands out, in that they taste the least "fishy" of any tinned
fish I've had. The salmon is very mild but the lemon is extremely present. Not
overly acidic. Seems to borrow more of the taste of lemon extract than the
acidic juice. The salmon is firm, not mushy, and doesn't inherit the oily
texture of something that's been sitting in [[Olive_Oil]] for probably months.
Seems to be cut with a healthy dose of water, according to the ingredients. Also
lacks some of the deep taste that some oilve oils have, making it taste more
like pomace or grapeseed oil.

Altogether, it's fine and easy to eat. Not my favorite tinned fish but
definitely one of the better ones. Expensive though, at about $4 per tin from my
Food Lion.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Calories | 130cal |
| Fat | 6g |
| Carbohydrates | 0g |
| Sodium | 220mg |
| Protein | 19g |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lvn52mzlbc24"]]
