Between the time of the release of Red Bull in the US in 1996 and the formation
of Rockstar in 2001 and Monster Energy in 2002, the US thirst for energy drinks
went from nonexistent to red hot.

Pushed further by insane bids on behalf of Monster Energy and Red Bull, energy
drinks forced their way into the US public consciousness around this time. Red
Bull heavily sponsored Sauber Motorsport AG in F1 races from 1995 until 2005
when it purchased _its own F1 team_, formerly Jaguar Racing, from Ford. Monster
Energy pushed its _rockstar_ image by handing out cans at rock concerts, and it
became a sponsor of Vans Warped Tour in 2003. Rip-It secured a contract with
the US Department of Defense in 2004 to provide energy drinks in 8oz cans to US
troops in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Monster, Red Bull and Rockstar formed the triumvirate of top 3 energy drinks by
sales volume by 2007. Here is a snapshot of the market that year, by brand.

<table>
  <caption>2007 Energy Drink Brands By Market Share[^1]</caption>
  <tr>
    <th>Brand</th>
    <th>Dollar Sales</th>
    <th>% Change vs. Prior Year</th>
    <th>Market Share</th>
    <th>% Change vs. Prior Year</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Red Bull</td>
    <td>$301,757,200</td>
    <td>19.3%</td>
    <td>41.5</td>
    <td>-5.7%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Monster Energy</td>
    <td>$111,701,900</td>
    <td>70.8%</td>
    <td>15.4</td>
    <td>3.2%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Rockstar</td>
    <td>$85,969,880</td>
    <td>52.6%</td>
    <td>11.8</td>
    <td>1.3%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Full Throttle</td>
    <td>$47,512,540</td>
    <td>43.8%</td>
    <td>6.5</td>
    <td>0.4%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Sobe No Fear</td>
    <td>$35,579,070</td>
    <td>33.7%</td>
    <td>4.9</td>
    <td>0.1%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Amp</td>
    <td>$26,260,140</td>
    <td>18.7%</td>
    <td>3.6</td>
    <td>-0.5%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Sobe Adrenaline Rush</td>
    <td>$17,735,360</td>
    <td>17.4%</td>
    <td>2.4</td>
    <td>-1.6%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Tab Energy</td>
    <td>$14,626,450</td>
    <td>212.5%</td>
    <td>2.0</td>
    <td>11%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Powerade</td>
    <td>$10,719,600</td>
    <td>117.6%</td>
    <td>1.5</td>
    <td>0.6%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Monster Energy XXL</td>
    <td>$8,033,378</td>
    <td>230.8%</td>
    <td>1.1</td>
    <td>0.7%</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><strong>Category Total</strong></td>
    <td><strong>$727,391,000</strong></td>
    <td><strong>35.8%</strong></td>
    <td><strong>100.0</strong></td>
    <td><strong>N/A</strong></td>
  </tr>
</table>

The energy drink market from ~2000 through 2007 was a time of innovation,
experimentation, failure and success in the energy drink indusry. Virtually
every company was a newcomer and household names were only being formed by the
mid 00s.

I argue that, in contrast, following this period of massive revenue + explosive
growth, the decade from 2011 to 2021 was a dark-age for energy drinks, due to
the natural contraction and concentration of the market and to these special two
factors.

Factor One — Four Loko
----------------------

In 2010 we see the reformulation of Four Loko, a caffeinated, canned, alcoholic
malt beverage packaged between 6% and 14% ABV, sold by Phusion Projects. I argue
that the public hysteria around caffeine plus alcohol, and consequent FDA
warnings issued to Phusion Projects and other caffeinated malt producers,
spooked the market as more Americans became aware of the dangers of not just
mixing caffeine and alcohol, but of caffeine ingested on its own. Outlets state
that the inclusion of caffeine in Four Loko makes consumers feel “wide-awake
drunk” and causes them act out of character. This gave Four Loko a cult-like
status. Many publicized incidents from late-2010 involved people drinking more
than one can of Four Loko. If these were just normal 6% to 14% ABV malts this
event would not be newsworthy but the hysteria surrounding the “alcohol plus
caffeine death cocktail” I believe tainted the perception of caffeinated,
carbonated energy drinks, as many outlets stated at the time it was the caffeine
that made people do stupid stuff, not the amount of alcohol, nor the often
mixing of Four Loko with other (non-malt) liquors. This is when I should mention
that each 23.5 oz can has 156mg of caffeine, about 50% more than the 8.2oz
redbull can at the time, and at 12% ABV about as much alcohol as 4x 1.5oz shots
of 80 proof liquor. 23.5oz is a significant amount of liquid, mind you. Consider
it a near-strictly worse vodka redbull in every single regard *except* for the
fact it can be sold almost anywhere instead of requiring a liquor license.

There were a few producers of caffeinated malts in the US at the time. In the
Four Loko case, as the result of several widely publicized incidents, injuries
and probably 1 death, Four Loko was banned across many college campuses and at
the state level in some cases, with the hysteria peaking in October and November 2010.
In November 2010 the FDA publicly warned the producers of caffeinated
alcoholic beverages, Phusion Projects included, that caffeine may be an unsafe
food additive in their products; Four-Loko was reformulated to remove the
caffeine in December of the same year in compliance with this FDA guidance.

Factor Two — Michelle Obama
---------------------------

Another factor which hurt energy drink sales during this time was the beginning
of the acceleration of the decline of per-capita sugary drink consumption in the
US. From 2007 to 2008 US sugary drink consumptuion fell 1.8% and continued to
fall as childhood obesity became a defining issue of this time in the US. This
sentiment was highlighted and bookended by Michelle Obama's *Let's Move* program
in 2010.

Energy drinks, which had few sugar-free formulas at this time, suffered as a
result of the downturn in US public perception.

---

These two factors contributed to a slowdown, causing the environment that bore
so many distinct energy drinks, brands and companies to enter into a brief lull.
New introductions into the energy drink category slumped, brands were pulled
from shelves and power was centralized in larger market participants by
acquisition. Here is a list of companies that sold the bottom:

- Coca-Cola, who bought NOS in 2007 from Fuze, sold the brand to Monster Energy in
2015
- Coca-Cola also dumped the Powerade Energy brand in 2013
- SoBe No Fear / Adrenaline Rush distribution was scaled back heavily in the US
  market
    - As of 2024 a company in Guatamala produces Adrenaline Rush, without the
      SoBe branding, under just the name "Adrenaline Rush" with the subtext
      "bebida energizente"
- Mtn Dew experiments with Game Fuel and removes the Mountain Dew logo from Amp
  cans entirely
    - In 2018 Mtn Dew pulled a 180 and un-rebranded it back to "Mountain Dew Amp" again

Shareholder presentations from this time confirm that, in addition to
acknowledging concerns about sugar content, companies were also aware that
consumers living in (what I propose as) a post-caffeinated Four Loko society
were more aware of the risks of caffeine on health, as below:

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicb6ytwfh3a7pfnyfr67v4yjgubyqafeyfnibqmfgfxb34gueotbi" size=medium]]
<figcaption>An odd slide a from Monster Beverage Corporation presentation to
shareholders from December 11, 2012[^2] mentioning the “current frenzy of
directed attacks against energy drinks”</figcaption>
</figure>

In the background of the 10 years from 2011 〜 2021, something was brewing. I
believe the market saw the trends of sugary drink consumption and realized that
dumping high-fructose corn syrup into an energy drink was not sustainable if the
sugary drink trend continued (and it has). Although there were a few zero- or
low-sugar energy drinks available, the field was still budding in these years
and these products had little traction. The first sign of life we see is a
product from Monster called:

| Item | Launch Date |
|------|-------------|
| Monster Energy Zero Ultra | Q3 2012 |

The Monster Zero Ultra (white can) launched in Q3 2012 without much fanfare from
the company. Immediately after hitting shelves though the drink becomes an
instant success. By 2014 the barely 2 year-old line is Monster's #2 sub brand
and Zero Ultra in particular is Monster's #2 SKU.[^3] Prior to Zero Ultra the
only entries in Monster's low- / zero- sugar category were Monster Lo-Carb and
Monster Absolutely Zero, which saw limited success but failed to hit the mark as
well as Zero Ultra did.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihsyik2yvtoyfa7wvupspvnis3ljnfpnxrgdoxdh6jmmepsbehwya" size=medium]]
</figure>

Monster scales up the Ultra line quickly, trying to capture more of the market
that Ultra Zero tapped in to before anyone else can.

With the sugar concern mostly solved through zero-sugar offerings that are
sweetened artificially, and having clear product-market fit, the only problem
now was looming public concern about caffeine, and a lack of clear FDA guidance
about safe and healthy caffeine dosing by age.

In 2014, 2 cases of death by overdosing caffeine anhydrous are recorded and
further stoke public fear of caffeine. Another death in 2017 (not anhydrous)
causes the FDA to look more closely into the issue.

Then, in April 2018 the FDA issues guidance about caffeine, effectively limiting
the sale of anhydrous caffeine, and around the same time began recommending
adults with no special heart conditions to stay below 400mg of caffeine /
day.[^4] This guidance, I believe, was the final domino. After this guidance was
released I believe the energy drink market felt a clear enough path forward to
flourish again. Newcomers flooded the space in the years soon after, mostly from
the athletic supplements (preworkout) fields. This reenergized the old guard and
brought the flourishing energy drink renaissance that we exist in now. Well, at
least the one that I exist in now. If you're reading this way in the future
maybe they've regulated this beautiful space out of existence. For shame!

Amid the growing hype, and as more newcomers entered the market, the old
triumvirate of Rockstar, Monster Energy and Rockstar became 2 when Pespi
acquired Rockstar for 3.85 billion USD in cash on in April 2020.[^5]

<table>
  <caption>Q4 2023 Energy Drink Brands By Market Share[^6]</caption>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Brand</th>
      <th>$</th>
      <th>$ % Chg YA</th>
      <th>Units</th>
      <th>Units % Chg YA</th>
      <th>$ Shr</th>
      <th>$ Shr Chg YA</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>ENERGY</td>
      <td>$5,124,357,027</td>
      <td>7.9%</td>
      <td>1,598,981,434</td>
      <td>6.6%</td>
      <td>100.0</td>
      <td>0.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>TOTAL MEC</td>
      <td>$1,793,156,483</td>
      <td>3.8%</td>
      <td>556,151,670</td>
      <td>2.9%</td>
      <td>35.0</td>
      <td>-1.4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;MONSTER</td>
      <td>$1,516,603,734</td>
      <td>2.2%</td>
      <td>461,627,206</td>
      <td>0.9%</td>
      <td>29.6</td>
      <td>-1.6</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;REIGN</td>
      <td>$133,858,333</td>
      <td>27.6%</td>
      <td>47,941,189</td>
      <td>31.2%</td>
      <td>2.6</td>
      <td>0.4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;NOS</td>
      <td>$114,975,123</td>
      <td>6.8%</td>
      <td>36,125,225</td>
      <td>3.2%</td>
      <td>2.2</td>
      <td>0.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;FULL THROTTLE</td>
      <td>$27,618,968</td>
      <td>5.4%</td>
      <td>10,418,118</td>
      <td>9.5%</td>
      <td>0.5</td>
      <td>0.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>RED BULL</td>
      <td>$1,710,511,535</td>
      <td>2.8%</td>
      <td>483,882,408</td>
      <td>1.2%</td>
      <td>33.4</td>
      <td>-1.6</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>CELSIUS</td>
      <td>$453,330,361</td>
      <td>126.5%</td>
      <td>151,168,887</td>
      <td>115.8%</td>
      <td>8.8</td>
      <td>4.6</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>5-HOUR</td>
      <td>$176,587,532</td>
      <td>-6.5%</td>
      <td>39,232,060</td>
      <td>-8.1%</td>
      <td>3.4</td>
      <td>-0.5</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ROCKSTAR</td>
      <td>$162,416,955</td>
      <td>-4.8%</td>
      <td>72,447,327</td>
      <td>-8.2%</td>
      <td>3.2</td>
      <td>-0.4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>C4</td>
      <td>$146,204,909</td>
      <td>63.0%</td>
      <td>49,789,150</td>
      <td>53.9%</td>
      <td>2.9</td>
      <td>1.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>STARBUCKS</td>
      <td>$132,093,340</td>
      <td>-15.8%</td>
      <td>34,967,583</td>
      <td>-21.0%</td>
      <td>2.6</td>
      <td>-0.7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ALANI NU</td>
      <td>$130,209,138</td>
      <td>53.0%</td>
      <td>41,849,763</td>
      <td>63.0%</td>
      <td>2.5</td>
      <td>0.7</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>GHOST</td>
      <td>$130,865,833</td>
      <td>60.0%</td>
      <td>46,272,634</td>
      <td>58.1%</td>
      <td>2.6</td>
      <td>0.8</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>BANG</td>
      <td>$63,388,798</td>
      <td>-63.1%</td>
      <td>22,522,446</td>
      <td>-64.3%</td>
      <td>1.2</td>
      <td>-2.4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>PRIME ENERGY</td>
      <td>$27,007,303</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>9,308,280</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>0.5</td>
      <td>0.5</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>FAST TWITCH</td>
      <td>$22,193,607</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>8,596,476</td>
      <td>-</td>
      <td>0.4</td>
      <td>0.4</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ALL OTHER</td>
      <td>$176,391,233</td>
      <td>-18.0%</td>
      <td>82,792,810</td>
      <td>-12.8%</td>
      <td>3.4</td>
      <td>-1.1</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

It's worth noting that more energy drink brands emerged from the world of
preworkout supplements than during the 2000s boom. Ghost, C4 and some incumbents
not on this list like Bucked Up, Lit and Alani Nu were preworkout powders before
or around the same time that they were reformulated and sold in cans.

This table is ripped from a Monster shareholder report so it doesn't break out
the relation of other brands, but many of these are owned by common parent
companies. For instance, Prime Energy and Alani Nu are owned alongside 3D Energy
by Congo Brands, a company that seems as much a digital marketing machine as an
energy drink distributor. Bucked Up, which doesn't make this list beyond `ALL
OTHER` is a notable independent company that began in the preworkout space. Bang
is presently a brand of Monster Energy after being sued out of existence by
Monster itself.

Many energy drinks, like Bucked Up and C4, tease the FDA's 400mg per day
suggestion. These drinks, mostly with a past (and present) as preworkout
supplements, market themselves as anaerobic performance enhancements to be
consumed prior to a workout like their preworkout supplement formulas. Their
purpose is to provide more impetus for explosive performance in the gym and to
increase your max effort output, which they do quite well. And similar to
preworkouts they often have other additives like beta alanine, which makes my
skin tingly (this is evidently intended), and L-theanine and taurine. Of course
these energy drinks also have elevated levels of caffeine in them, often 250mg
and 300mg in a single 16oz (sometimes 12oz) can. These levels are quite normal
for a serving of powdered preworkout formula but as a prepackaged energy drink
this serving size is a significant step up from what was on the market 20 years
ago. There seems to be (currently) little concern of regulating this as the
market has kept a soft cap at 300mg per 16oz can, though Prime Energy's clear
marketing towards children, even if not intended, does raise some concern
despite Prime's amazing virality as the 400mg number is the FDA guideline for
those over 18.

Personally regardless of caffeine content I will try every one that I find (I
have a risk-taking personality). I will fill out some reviews here soon on ones
that I have ready access to, as I've become an encyclopedia on this knowledge
since I began exploring the landscape in 2019. I found this [review site called
everyview.com](https://www.everyview.com/2009/08/19/energy-drink-review-turn-left/)
where I found charming reviews for many energy drinks, some of which I will
never get to try, from 2008 to
2012. Thank you, XAQuiri Daiquiri, your writing is inspirational.

Dan Lourenco, the founder of Ghost described the current energy drink market as
being “on fire”[^7]. I couldn't agree more. Here is a list of company and brand
launches that I noticed in my day-to-day which I cross-referenced with publicly
available information to determine a launch date as accurate as possible.

| Item | Launch Date |
|------|-------------|
| Alani Nu | 2018 |
| 3D Energy | 2019 |
| Reign | March 2019 |
| Ghost Energy | 2021 |
| Bucked Up (Can) | 2021 |
| 5-Hour ENERGY (Can) | Oct 2021 |
| Prime Energy | January 2023 |
| Monster Zero Sugar | January 2023 |
| Nos Zero Sugar | 2023 |

[^1]: Information Resources Inc., Total food, drug, and mass merchandise (excluding Wal-Mart) for the 52 weeks ending May 20, 2007.

[^2]: [Monster Beverage Corporation December 11 2012 Shareholder Report](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/865752/000110465912083284/a12-29092_1ex99d1.htm)

[^3]: [Monster Beverage Corporation January 7 2014 Shareholder Report](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/865752/000110465914000830/a14-1249_1ex99d1.htm)

[^4]: [FDA–2018–D–1189](https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/guidance-industry-highly-concentrated-caffeine-dietary-supplements)

[^5]: [PepsiCo, Inc. Form 10-K Annual Report For the Fiscal Year Ended December 26, 2020](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/77476/000007747621000007/pep-20201226.htm), Note 14

[^6]: Nielsen Total US xAOX + Conv 13 weeks ending 12/30/2023, from [Monster Beverage Corporation Q4 2023 Shareholder Report](https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/865752/000110465924004103/tm243289d1_ex99-1.htm)

[^7]: [How Ghost Energy Found Success Through Transparency](https://www.bevindustry.com/articles/95710-how-ghost-energy-found-success-through-transparency), BevIndustry
