[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Maruchan Instant Lunch Chili Piquin and Shrimp"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

Random pull from a convenience store. It says "CAJUN style" on the front but
cajun cooking normally uses cayenne pepper for heat, not typically piquin. Maybe
it's because of the shrimp? In any case I had already dedicated 5 seconds of
thought to this cup already so I picked it up. The Maruchan Instant Lunch
noodles are always very cheap. They are helpful to eat as I bulk because they're
free calories. And I get to write about it.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifr4yxyjoc64wxggdsbbma7p26iizdbesjibqkot2na3abmurucpq" size=medium]]
</figure>

The noodles are so bland. They soak up a bit of broth that makes it all a bit
spicy. But the broth does not have much flavor aside from the spice. And even so
it's not very spicy. About the same amount of spice as
[[Maruchan_Cup_Hot_Spicy_Beef_Flavor]], maybe even lower. The shrimp really
suck. Like with [[Maruchan_Cup_Lime_Chili_Flavor_With_Shrimp]], the shrimp are
comically small and taste terrible, like dirt.

I should really stop getting any Maruchan with shrimp in it. The kinds without
shrimp, like [[Maruchan_Cup_Beef_Flavor]], have been fine. In Japan, seafood cup
noodles, [[especially the one from Nissin|Nissin_Cup_Noodles_Seafood]], are
[very popular](https://prtimes.jp/main/html/rd/p/000000023.000135215.html).
Maruchan US people should take note.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Calories | 290cal |
| Fat | 12g |
| Carbohydrates | 39g |
| Sodium | 1080mg |
| Protein | 6g |

