[[!meta title="Instant Noodles Review — Maruchan Instant Lunch Hot and Spicy Beef Flavor"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

Maruchan Instant Lunch is cheap. Like $0.52 at Walmart cheap. At 290 calories
it's an amazing proposition for the price. I have reviewed
[[Maruchan's beef flavored cup noodles|Maruchan_Cup_Beef_Flavor]] before, and
the noodles I have today are the spicy variant of that. I had high expectations
for the spicy beef flavor because the slight oilyness of the original beef
flavor's broth surprised me. Maybe that was only because my expectations were
very low when I started that review.

<figure class="image-square">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigufmpkvxg7dvgtxzcblyuysdv4lhjj6en5ffy6jhyey3ueeldzwq" size=medium]]
</figure>

After letting the noodles sit in hot water for 3 minutes, the first thing I am
struck by when I pick up the cup is how easy it is to hold considering there is
water near its boiling point inside. The styrofoam cup is only just pleasantly
warm and easy to hold but the noodles and broth are scaldingly hot.

In contrast to the regular beef flavor, these supposedly have a bit more spice
in them. The broth is disappointing, tasting like a beef bouillon cube dropped
in hot water with a bit of cayenne pepper spinkled in. It's not exactly just
bouillon, though, I think the rehydrated vegetables lend a bit of their flavor
to the broth. It is somewhat spicy but not particularly spicy.
[[Maruchan_Fire_Bowl_Spicy_Beef_Ramen]] was much more intense and left me
sniffling. These are comparatively weak.

The noodles soak up a bit of this broth and are themselves weak, thin and
meager. I'm amazed by how many noodles there are. They might lack texture but
there are so many here it doesn't really matter. This is an item you eat because
you are hungry and have 10 minutes for lunch, not something you reach for
because it's the best thing you could have for lunch. It serves its purpose
well.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Serving | Styrofoam cup (64g) |
| Calories | 290cal |
| Fat | 12g |
| Carbohydrates | 39g |
| Sodium | 1150mg |
| Protein | 6g |

