[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Maruchan Gold Spicy Miso"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

Instant noodles, like [[Energy Drinks|Discover/Energy_Drink]], are a world unto
their own. Most people disregard them as cheap little meals, especially in the
US, but instant noodles can be far more than this.

For instance (and the topic of this review), Maruchan GOLD is a premium offering
from Maruchan. It comes in two different flavors, spicy miso and soy. I've had
both and prefer the miso. At $1.99 from my local Food Lion this is more
expensive than other instant noodles but very well-worth the price. I have heard
they are similar to Maruchan Seimen (マルちゃん 正麺) in Japan but for the US
market.

<figure class="image-square">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreia6sonaugwn7uyd3y4rooehx6dyc63eqkfyvdfsge5poub4qtdwai" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreig5u4un4d5whytn2rv743umjpq4l6wz47arern2kcz2p4c4rrpcnu" size=medium]]
</figure>

First of all, the noodle texture and taste is amazing for an instant noodle.
Slightly chewy and absorbs the broth well. This stands out in a market where
most instant noodles are far too thin and ethereal. They have an almost waxy
coating on them? Not in a bad way. They are the best noodles I have had that
come from a dried block.

Second of all, the soup base is a liquid. For miso soup using a liquid base
translates very well to being an instant noodle. The broth is oily and not
overly salty. The taste is rich and deep. Not very close to an actual miso
broth but, for instant noodles, this is a clear winner.
