[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Maruchan Instant Lunch Beef Flavor"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

Finally a review of instant noodles where I can suspend my pretentious rhetoric
about _rāmen_ and get back to basics. Maruchan is what most Americans think of
when they think of “ramen”: meals for college kids and those below the poverty
line, like 1 out of every 5 people in Mississippi.[^1] One cup is $0.60 here
and, in keeping with the spirit of these noodles, I bought my cup at a Dollar
General.

I have had many packets and cups from Maruchan on the trail while hiking with
the boy scouts in my youth. They are very simple, warm food you can eat outdoors
and make with only boiling water. They are also very light to carry and the only
equipment required is a backpacking stove which you probably have already if you
are hiking. When warm food is a luxury, cup noodles are the quickest and easiest
path there.

“Instant Lunch” is what Maruchan calls its instant cup noodles. Open the cup,
pour hot water into the cup, cover and wait 3 minutes. Very standard stuff. The
cup noodles I bought are beef-flavored.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigoeli7essu53gl2vo3wpprwdedd7oam3t2yxhsqelur4rhv4ealu" size=medium]]
</figure>

The noodles are chewy even after cooking fully for 3 minutes, which can be fine
but these are rather thin; the chewiness is unbecoming to such thin noodles.
They absorb little of the broth too; this makes them taste bland. There are
little dehydrated vegetables in the broth; the only redeemable of these
vegetables are the corn; the carrots are especially mediocore and I doubt the
small amount of chives actually do anything other than disrupt the visual
monotony of the noodles in the cup.

The broth surprised me, maybe it's gotten better since I last tried it years
ago but it's rather beef-like and somewhat oily. Per unit price I think it is a
great imitation of beef broth. It's quite salty but still enjoyable.

[^1]: [[!wikipedia Thank_God_for_Mississippi]]
