[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Maruchan Akai Kitsune Udon"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

_[[!wikipedia Udon]]_ is my least favorite Japanese food group. The noodles are
thick and hard for me to grab so eating is sometimes a messy affair, more messy
than [[rāmen|Ramen]] for me. The noodles are often overcooked and one of the
most popular udon toppings is _[[!wikipedia Tempura]]_. I can think of fewer
detestable things than putting something battered, deep-fried and typically
crispy in a bowl of broth until it gets soggy and limp. I just don't get it. For
that reason, if I'm going to enjoy udon, I choose toppings that are not
breaded. _Kitsune udon_ (_kitsune_ means fox. don't ask me why it's called fox
udon) is one type of udon. It has a sheet of sweet, fried (not breaded) tofu
called _[[!wikipedia Abura-age]]_.

These are instant _kitsune udon_ noodles. Maruchan has sold _Akai Kitsune Udon_
since 1978 without much change. The 1978 product evolved from _Cup Kitsune Udon_
which was released in 1975 and was the world's first cup udon. Here is an
advertisement for that _Cup Kitsune Udon_.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifsf6oyykgwh27l5vpmhllpywas26gqbyjmtedhp4aq6bhxbxa3xm" size=medium]]
</figure>

However, Tōyō Suisan at the time failed to secure a patent for its process
before Nissin released _Donbei Kitsune Udon_ in 1976. Tōyō Suisan refined their
process and rebranded _Cup Kitsune Udon_ to _Akai Kitsune Udon_ in red packaging
to stand out more on shelves against its Nissin competitor. They changed the
shape of the packaging slightly as well, which is why it is no longer called
cup udon.

What I have today is an evolution of that 1978 product, still branded _Akai
Kitsune Udon_ and still packaged in red.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihweebybapjsihrydaanu6igdsf2omirpfvq26hvx2rsoejr4dl7i" size=medium]]
</figure>

The noodles are wavy, unlike traditional udon noodles. Of course these came in
a dried block so that's expected, but visually they remind of rāmen noodles.
They are still thick and the taste is closer to udon noodles, thankfully. The
noodles are much more salty than the real thing, probably owing to the broth.
The only other thing floating in the broth, aside from the tofu, is a few scant
green onions. They don't do much to the flavor but I appreciate that they're
there.

The tofu is sweet but compared to other fried tofu (_aburāge_) I've had it's
quite bland. It does the job and is convincing enough considering it was dry a
few minutes ago and now is sopping wet.

Finally, the broth is fantastic. Very salty, but rich and somewhat sweet.
There's visibly suspended oil floating in the broth which imbues a slick
texture. The only negative here is that it's super salty, which does distract
some from the flavor.

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3mlbdugcepk2j"]]
