[[!meta title="Instant Soup — McDougall's Black Bean and Lime Soup Cup"]]
[[!tag Soup Review]]

I have an obsession with [[Discover/Instant_Noodles]]. Yes, most cup noodles out
there are Japanese, but imagine how crazy it would be if they made cup noodles
for the West. That's what McDougall's Soup Cups are: instant soup, just add
water. Nevermind they sell the same thing in cans. The soup cup comes in the
same familiar form factor as family favorites like [[Maruchan_Cup_Beef_Flavor]]
and [[Nongshim_Shin_Spicy_Cup_Noodles]] but it's black bean soup. Considering
Japanese people believe [[Rāmen|Ramen]] is a soup dish, not a noodle dish, the
application of soup to instant cup foods is fitting.

<figure class="image-square">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidrt7tuquxaauxwmcz5cfmsn2dk2hncvwwlv7kwkqerz6o3y2ocu4" size=medium]]
</figure>

It's incredibly barebones. Some would call it "rustic". "Hearty". A little bit
of salt would go a long way but would ruin the heart-healthy aura of the dish.
The taste is like emulsified cardboard, and the texture is very similar too.
Imagine you threw a flimsy cardboard box into the recycling can but missed and
it landed on the ground and then you forgot about it and it rained for a week
straight. The soup is sopping wet, like that, and sort of tastes like it too.
Not off-putting. Just bland.

And even though I did my best to stir it, the soup is weirdly heterogenous in
spots with respect to taste and texture. I thought the distant metallic taste
could have just been due to the fork I'm eating McDougall's with but I'm not so
sure. There are some detectable, palatable beans in the cup but the overwhelming
texture is paste. There's lime juice listed in the ingredients but scarcely
perceptible in the product. A bit of citric acid could help. I didn't add any,
like how I don't add things to cup noodles I'm reviewing. Maybe I should've.

Despite it being one of the most underwhelming, bland items I've eaten from a
cup it actually has a bit of salt in it: half of what's in
[[Maruchan_Cup_Hot_Spicy_Beef_Flavor]] but still, not nothing.

What sets these apart from cup noodles are McDougall's macronutrients, sporting
an impressive 21g of protein, 14g of fiber, and being very low in fat. The
ingredients list is quite stripped down, compared to other things in cups,
featuring just 13 ingredients that are all just regular foods, food powders or
sugar. Impressive. All in all, these are a quaint, filling and welcome foil
to the onslaught of instant noodles out there. I recommend trying, probably just
once, if you're up for something different.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Serving | Paper cup (95g) |
| Calories | 350cal |
| Fat | 1.5g |
| Carbohydrates | 63g |
| Sodium | 590mg |
| Fiber | 14g |
| Protein | 21g |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lv3vzcyo6k2g"]]
