Hi, I'm Wesley, also known as **wesl-ee**.

<table class="no-border">
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-nos.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-manga-time-krr.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-google-earth.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-deathgrips.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-slsk.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-peak-oil-theory.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-us-taxpayer.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-ti-basic-n.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-adult.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-mortal.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-foodlion.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-vaporwave.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-happy.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-weird.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-exercise-water.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
</table>

I write computer code that does useful things. I have worked as a software
developer with large companies like Nasdaq and NVIDIA and also with with
smaller, leaner startups in the cryptocurrency space. I hope you will see
through this site that I am a generalist too and cultivate knowledge across many
seemingly disjoint domains. This site is a record of that interest.

My professional expertise is within the broad scope of “distributed systems”;
this includes blockchains, P2P networking, high-availibility systems, and
technology built on these primitives. High-level concepts I have relevant
professional experience with are [[Digital_Money]], [[Decentralized_Finance]],
perpetual futures, options, and many different flavors of stablecoins.

Before I began working full-time I graduated from
[[North_Carolina_State_University]] with a B.S. in Computer Engineering and
another B.S. in Electrical Engineering. During that time I also accidentally
took enough courses to collect my minor in mathematics on the way out the door.

Tech
----

I am a digital native; I believe [[Digital_Money]] is the future. I run an
[[On-Prem_Home_Lab_Kubernetes]] cluster which hosts this website and many other
services. I am building a generally available P2P network called
[[HooYa!|HooYa]] which already hosts all of the images on this website.

New software I write these days is typically in Rust but I have a strong
background in Go and C++. The technologies I use beyond these languages are too
many to mention. My personal code is available from [my
Github](https://github.com/wesl-ee).

Personal
--------

Within and without the above tech I maintain my hobbies.

My daily-driver is a [['97 BMW 318ti|BMW_318ti]] which I maintain to its factory
specification. This car is older than me yet somehow still runs; I am its only
mechanic.

I am fluent in [[Japanese]]; I studied at [[Sophia_University]] in Tōkyō, Japan;
continuing my Japanese study is one of several outlets for me to express my
passion for learning.

My [[aesthetics|Discover/Aesthetics]] are important to me; I am in the gym and
lifting more days than I am not.

Other things I love:

- [[Drawing]]
- DJ'ing as [[DJR3]]
- Playing games made for [[Virtual_Reality]]
- Making + enjoying [[Coffee]]
- Cooking, both for myself and with my fiancé

Most of the day I exist in my [[Workspace]].

Contacting Me / Net Presence
----------------------------

There are many ways to [[Contact]] me on the Internet. Some preferred more than
others.
