[[!meta title="Instant Noodles Review — Menraku Miso Tonkotsu Ramen"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

Another HMart find.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidxnbeftopsjj45gu6szai4zbzjpshu4zi5sdlcg3iquyfexnfbgy" size=medium]]
</figure>

Each pack of Menraku has 2 powdered flavor packets and 2 bundles of noodles.
Because of this I decided to make one bundle by pouring hot water over it as if
it were cup-type instant noodles and the other bundle by the recommended way, in
a pot over the stove.

Logistically it was difficult to cover the noodles with water as they are far
too big to squeeze into even a normal _rāmen_ bowl so I needed to break the
hot-water batch in half. The ones in the pot were fine once they cooked enough
and slumped down into the boiling water.

It's no surprise the batch that was cooked the recommended way came out better.
Much better, in fact. Despite leaving the cup-style bundle in hot water one
minute longer than I cooked the stovetop ones (4 minutes instead of 3) the
cup-style ones were not cooked all the way through. I returned these to the
stove to finish. Also, in breaking them in half, they were now not very long
anymore like the noodles for any _rāmen_ should be.

The noodle taste and texture reminds me of spaghetti. The comparison immediately
brought this image to mind:

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiheeqy2t4jaa6kwbgpm5ktuyc56ekdddnrxz3wjjpydnzeb4ms4qq" size=medium]]
</figure>

There's nothing special here, just not terrible like some instant noodles can
be. Decent bite, not too thin or weak. Again, I think of spaghetti when I taste
these. They don't soak up much broth either.

The broth is amazing; there is a surprisingly deep flavor to it, redolent of
actual tonkotsu broth. Considering this broth was a powder 3 minutes ago this is
a very surprising and pleasant find, as the only other broth I've had that's
even come close is that of [[Maruchan_Gold_Spicy_Miso]]. This broth is arguably
better despite being a simple powder. The only point againt this broth is that
it is more salty than any broth I've had and it doesn't taste like miso very
much. But as a tonkotsu imitator it does an amazing job.

By itself these instant noodles are boring. It could be an amazing base for the
noodles and broth in a more elaborate dish. That's what the splash on the front
of the package seems to suggest I should do.
