[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Monster Bad Apple"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Released October 2025 in the US, Monster Bad Apple is a can I feel like I've
seen before but actually never have. I may've seen images of it online, as
the UK market got it more than a year before the US. The art on the front of
this can is pretty cool and features a girl with dirty blonde hair and red eyes
holding up an apple. She's meant to be the first woman created by God, Eve, not
some random person.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreid2mvzpzvhkej2ctulyqyj4c3huxtadugl5khpqgnm3fnp6sfxx2i" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Alucard would be so much cooler though</figcaption>
</figure>

And no, not related to [that](https://youtu.be/FtutLA63Cp8) Bad Apple either
Here's a great Baile flip of Bad Apple. Not related to the drink but I can't
just sit on this one.

<figure>
<audio src="https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreid25b4hagsjpqhdgtvtewsjshfaly7b2iy4zwr275vxlqsce2ngsi" controls/>
<figcaption>Bad apple!!(koyuki baile funk bootleg)</figcaption>
</figure>

I guess when you look at the can closer it seems the girl isn't wearing any
clothing, or at least none that's visible, so the guess of her being Eve checks
out. Hell yes, more odd religious references on energy drinks please. [Bottoms
up. And the Devil laughs.](https://youtu.be/bntfUA6TmLs?t=103) Something to
think about.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibq3kh2edx3ltaeri2gmatnwjvh3qcct7icvpyy4pp3uzrywsitj4" size=medium]]
</figure>

It's carbonated apple juice. There is no further insight I can provide; that's
it. It's not unbearably sweet and the carbonation is light. Like other Monster
juices it's very easy to drink and refreshing. At 170 calories it's lighter than
other sugary Monsters of similar size, but not much. It still sits heavy on the
stomach. Surprisingly, it's only 6% juice by volume.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 170cal |
| Caffeine | 160mg |
