[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — Monster"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

It's a bit embarassing that I've been doing these energy drink reviews for
[[months|Ghost_Energy_x_Faze_Clan_Faze_Pop]] and still have not reviewed the OG
Monster. That changes today. After all, Monster is one of the [[OG energy
drinks|Living_In_The_Energy_Drink_Renaissance]]; it wouldn't be a proper review
series if I didn't review the ([[second|Red_Bull]]) OG.

Across the hall from the lab I built all of my [[ECE 306 (Embedded
Systems)|Embedded_Systems_ECE306]] projects in, nestled in a small alcove, was a
vending machine that sold the full-sugar Monster, alongside the Java Monsters.
This vending machine was on the Electrical / Computer Engineering (ECE) side of
the building, the tactfully-named [Engineering Building 2
(EB2)](https://visit.ncsu.edu/engineering-building-2/)

In the same building on the Computer Science side there was a Port City Java
that closed at 3P. Routinely I was in there much, much later than the PCJ was
open, as I had 24/7 access to the building and the project I was building for
ECE306 demanded a lot of my time; the small alcove with the vending machine with
the Monster on _my_ side of EB2 became a routine visit for these reasons.

I remember distinctly leaving my [[x240|Devices/x240]] in the lab, connected
via Mini USB to the MSP430 board controlling my ECE306 project, normally within
30 minutes of around 10 at night, and walking the short distance to this vending
machine. I'd swipe my campus card, debiting my [Dining
Dollars](https://dining.ncsu.edu/meal-plans/faq/), and watch the robotic arm
inside the vending machine spring to life and achieve its given purpose for only
a moment, retrieving my night-black Monster from the cold corner of the machine.
You were so helpful; thank you.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifwaak2dk6wt76mrm6nzy2d37otiibz3h7yg3sekymufv57rlo42a" size=medium]]
</figure>

It tastes like battery acid; it's in-your-face; it sort of tastes like sour
candy and it has all the sugar to prove it. This taste is the baseline, for me,
that I compare and derive the taste of all energy drinks presented to me because
it's one of the first ones I remember having.

Because of its early success there are many Monster imitators out there, like
[[Rip_It_Stinger-Mo]], and honestly most do a fine job. There's nothing special
about Monster, especially the original flavor, other than that it was one of the
OGs from way back. We salute your service.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 230cal |
| Caffeine | 160mg |
