[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Monster Electric Blue"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Found at the [[Exxon]]. The new things I find in the store that they clearly started
stocking recently never ring up correctly at the counter. This new Monster was
no exception.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihxtspy57cnocx6hxjnro7m5ltqjlk6ughyjtx5rin5meccwihcku" size=medium]]
</figure>

Perceptibly more smooth than the OG [[Monster]]. It quenches my thirst like a
sports drink; oddly refreshing; I bet this would go hard after yard work.
Beyond its texture, the taste is ambiguously "blue" and bears no correspondence
to any fruit I've had. Aside from the obvious "blue sno-cone" comparison I make
to every drink that's clearly meant to taste like blue raspberry, the closest
fruit I can think of is pomegranate. A deep, dark profile, still oddly
refreshing and easy to drink.

It's sweet as well, which is unsurprising given Electric Blue is full-sugar. The
back of the can says "Made With REAL Sugars / NO High Fructose Corn Syrup".
Which makes me wonder if Monster normally contains high fructose corn syrup? I
never noticed if it did, and normally I do, as with [[Rip Its|Rip_It_Citrus_X]]
that texture is violently present. The sugar makes it sit heavy on my stomach,
something that doesn't happen when I drink zero sugar options.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 210cal |
| Caffeine | 160mg |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3m5emqr7ojc2o"]]
