[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — Mtn Dew Amp"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

I remember seeing this energy drink called Amp everywhere. It was on Dale
Earhardt Jr's car. It was all over advertisements and flavor signage at
convenience stores. At the time, the presence and sheer volume of
marketing for Amp and [[Monster]] solidified the color of energy drinks as
canonically green in my mind.

I thought, at the time, that Amp was its own company. From when I can remember
seeing it the can had no clear branding indicating otherwise. And, until
recently, I still thought it was its own company. Then a few months ago I saw
this thing called "Mtn Dew Amp" for sale at the store and the memories of Amp as
this cool thing I saw on a NASCAR livery once flooded my mind.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiefthn227nrhgookp2wnorrbif2k6vtfwpnxj5l3kglgq55uxcmpa" size=medium]]
</figure>

In reality, Amp was never its own company. From its inception in 2001 until at
least as most recently as this article was written it was and is a PepsiCo
product marketed as a sub-brand of Mountain Dew. Even when it was in stores when
I was much younger. PepsiCo took it through a chaotic rebranding as it struggled
to find fit as one of their few energy drink brands.

- Inception (2001) 〜 2008: "Amp Energy Drink from Mountain Dew" era
- 2008: Mountain Dew logo moved to the bottom of the can
- 2009 〜 2018: "Amp" era, no Mountain Dew branding
- 2018 〜: "Mtn Dew Amp"

From 2008 to 2011 Amp sponsored Dale Earnhardt Jr with Amp livery that was not
readily identifiable as Mountain Dew-aligned. After the pivot back to Mountain
Dew branding PepsiCo would go on to bolster its energy drink portfolio by
acquiring Rockstar in 2020 and Celsius in 2022, which I've written about in
[[Living_In_The_Energy_Drink_Renaissance]]. They spun out some of Amp into a
thing called "Amp Game Fuel" in 2019, complementing their "Game Fuel" brand they
began in 2007 with just regular Mountain Dew as co-promotional material for some
games like Halo 3, World of Warcraft and Call of Duty Modern Warfare 3 and
others throughout the years. The history of Amp is chaotic.

The "Mtn Dew Amp" I witnessed and bought in a convenience store is the heir to
this long, chaotic lineage…

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidoohsys4xhmcxolmiuximz7b6lsu2vol2bs2f67gdxepho7iem2i" size=medium]]
</figure>

…and the original is so disappointing.

The taste is citrus but I can't pin down exactly what fruit. Its can indicates
that Mtn Dew Amp contains orange juice concentrate. While not exactly orange
juice, which is much more acidic than this, its not close to lime either, which
is hinted at by the front of the can. It's like orange juice but muted. Very,
very underwhelming. And the carbonation is very lacking too. It's almost just a
soda with caffeine.

After sipping there is a sticky residue on my lips redolent of that texture many
[[Rip Its|Rip_It_Dragon_Fire]] I have enjoyed have left behind. It's unpleasant.
I don't like it.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 220cal |
| Caffeine | 142mg |
