[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Nissin Hot & Spicy Shrimp"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

Ah, Nissin Hot & Spicy Shrimp noodles. I have great memories of eating these. I
remember one time in particular after a long night of playing Call of Duty 4
(2007) multiplayer Hardcore Team Deathmatch I quietly made these noodles in the
late hours of the night with boiling water from my kettle. I'd just finished
fragging people with the default Spec Ops class, embarassing for them. The
loadout was:

- MP5
- USP.45 (silenced)
- C4
- Sonic Boom
- Steady aim.

It was a Friday night so no school the next day, nothing else to do. No
responsibilities. Simply, beautifully, untouchably free. That night I'd
consistently been top of the leaderboard on the most recent maps in rotation,
Downpour and Killhouse, despite my team losing hard.

That night was last night, in [[2025]], with the friend who gifted me
the [[Raptor_Energy]].

Anyhow.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibkdnbhxax4hkyphwi3zy4wfpfnjsglwygowgz2lxytd7wv5pgggu" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Excuse the poor quality this was taken with my [[Titan
Pocket|Personal_Device/Unihertz_Titan_Pocket]], not notable for its camera
</figure>

The noodles of Nissin's Hot & Spicy Shrimp themselves are thin. Taking my first
bite I notice they are quite bland. Subtly, they taste metallic but somehow
still like seafood. For inoffensive, tame noodles these do the job of providing
a meal of 420 calories. They do not stand out in any category. Of the dried
vegetables the most notable is the cabbage which still has a great bite to it
despite the God-knows how much processing and dehydrating it's been through. The
rest of the vegetables don't taste like much.

The broth is vaguely spicy, appropriate of the 1-chili-out-of-6 rating with
which they've endowed the livery on the front and top of the bowl. For
reference, [[Nissin_Hot_Spicy_Fire_Wok_Volcanic_Mongolian_Beef]] is
6-chilis-out-of-6. Otherwise, the broth here tastes like salt, tomato soup and
an aquarium. There is a chili packet attached to the bowl which I assumed would
make the broth far more oily than it actually became.

For anyone, shrimp broth is very hard to get right. For that reason I generally
avoid any cup noodles with the word "shrimp" written anywhere near them. I don't
think Nissin's gotten it right here, but they've at least avoided the mistake
[[Maruchan_Cup_Chili_Piquin_and_Shrimp]] and others make, that is, adding tiny
dehydrated shrimp to the broth. Those suck hard. This sucks less.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Calories | 420cal |
| Fat | 19g |
| Carbohydrates | 54g |
| Sodium | 1330mg |
| Protein | 10g |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lmnboxjn7s2y"]]
