[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Nissin Hot & Spicy Fire Wok Scorchin' Sesame Shrimp"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

This is the second Nissin Hot & Spicy noodle bowl I've had, the other being
[[Nissin Hot & Spicy Shrimp|Nissin_Hot_Spicy_Shrimp]]. I did not have high hopes
for this one after tasting the former not too long ago.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigdbaeqcijqy3pil2tg7mpcbtulz5sfg3qlxmxzbo6wb45fhpcsw4" size=medium]]
</figure>

These noodles actually do not have instructions for cooking with only boiling
water, a fact I noticed only after adding hot water to the bowl. This probably
undercooked them according to how Nissin expected me to make them. I really like
how they turned out though. The noodles are thick and firm. They remind me
pleasantly of one of my favorite instant noodles, [[Maruchan_Gold_Spicy_Miso]],
in their texture and firmness.

Notably, nothing on the bowl says anything about _rāmen_, actually, they are
only called "stir fry asian noodles in sauce". The addition of the sauce packet
makes the noodles oily and satisfying. Of course it's quite spicy too, but not
unbearably so, well-deserving of the 5-chilis-out-of-6 advertised on the front
and top of the bowl.Finally, I could smell the shrimp clearly as it was cooking
in the hot water, but any shrimp taste is barely noticable when enjoying the
noodles.

Compared with [[Nissin_Hot_Spicy_Shrimp]] these Nissin Fire Wok Scorchin' Sesame
Shrimp have almost nothing in common. In here there are little freeze-dried
shrimp.

The broth is deep and almost over-seasoned; far better than being under-seasoned
and watery. The rehydrated vegetables give the broth a vegetal and earthy taste,
while the dried shrimp impart a faint fishy flavor. Thankfully it's
underwhelming, as normally shrimp in instant noodles do not taste great. It's so
underwhelming in fact that I wouldn't know they were in there if the livery did
not call out the shrimp specifically.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Calories | 580cal |
| Fat | 25g |
| Carbohydrates | 75g |
| Sodium | 2160mg |
| Protein | 14g |

