[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Nissin Protein Hot & Spicy Chicken"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

Nissin Protein noodles are even newer than the [[Ramen
Bistro|Nissin_Ramen_Bistro_Sichuan_Garlic_Chicken]] brand which was released
last November. Nissin Protein was released on July 28 2025. Lately Nissin seems
to be making a push in the foreign market (instead of the Japanese domestic
market) with lots of new and interesting innovations in the field of things that
can be put in cups. Nissin Stir Fry has been around for a while, as has Curry.
Nissin Stir Fry with Noodles is newer. Top Ramen Hotpot Fusions was just
released in July along with Cup Noodles Protein.

Hot & Spicy Chicken, but not to be confused with
[[Nissin_Hot_Spicy_Fire_Wok_Molten_Chili_Chicken]]. These are not notably spicy
at all.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihod6oakwwzlojs7jqgecgum57mf2y5vtzfuecyl4p4yjf67smm7u" size=medium]]
</figure>

The noodles are thin and not very flavorful. The last Nissin cup I had was one
of the new Bistro ones, so of course these contrast harshly with those.

The broth itself is thin and not interesting. Just a normal chicken stock broth,
no noticable oil or anything to add texture to itself. The peas floating in the
broth are yummy, as are the corn. A welcome relief. The protein powder used is a
mix of soy and corn protein powder isolate. Before today I was not aware corn
protein was an option. I have seen another cup noodle priding itself on protein
content, Chef Woo, which has 20g per cup. Its source is pea protein instead of
soy, which is not a complete protein, but is probably supplemented by the amino
acids available in the noodles. I'm not sure, I'm not a nutritionist, I just eat
things.

Still, considering these have double the protein in similar sized cups from
Nissin, I'm appreciative that this does not taste off. I'm a bigger fan of the
[[Hot & Spicy|Nissin_Hot_Spicy_Fire_Wok_Volcanic_Mongolian_Beef]] bowls,
though. These are a fine cup noodle with few calories and high protein.

The argument people (typically) have for increased protein intake when not
actively training in the gym is that it keeps you fuller for longer. I don't
think that's true for just protein pwwders, and even if it were the effects of
an 8g difference would be negligible. Anyway, it's nice that it's there.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Calories | 320cal |
| Fat | 12g |
| Carbohydrates | 37g |
| Sodium | 1520mg |
| Protein | 16g |

[^1]: [https://www.nissinfoods.com/story/cup-noodles-protein-out-in-stores-now/]()
