[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Nissin Ramen Bistro Sichuan Garlic Chicken"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

Nissin's Ramen Bistro is a new brand for me, I haven't seen it around before.
These I found at the Dollar General near my house. Researching, I've found in a
FY 3/2025 H1 presentation that the Bistro brand was launched in November
2024.[^1]

They have three flavors right now: Sichuan Garlic Chicken, Korean Gochujang Beef
and Japanese Miso. Today I've got the first.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihhxfvfjwtg7ehplcnmuvprsokgsaa5xbxwwvxaipnit4pvqqpjue" size=medium]]
</figure>

First impression: there are so many noodles here, more than other cup noodles
I've had, so many that I can barely see the soup despite having filled it up to
the fill line. It does seem like something absorbed the water, as it is a
quarter inch below where I filled it to. There is a distant, wet spice imbued in
the noodles. The lid claims the noodles are "chili-infused" so this checks out.
They have great body and are springy despite me getting distracted and
overcooking by a minute. Since starting on my humble
[[Discover/Instant_Noodles]] journey I've become more fond of noodles with bite.
Mushy noodles cannot compare. These are perfect.

There are carrots, green onion and a dark, leafy green that the label betrays is
bok choy. It has palpable texture. There's dried chicken in here too, which I
find more of as I finish the noodles. Fascinating.

For a chicken broth it's damn good. Not too salty. It has suspended bits of oil
floating around in it, a nice touch. The spice introduces itself a bit more
aggressively in the broth than in the noodles. It's welcome, for me, but I like
spice. Not overpowering though.

In my hierarchy, this rivals [[Shin|Nongshim_Shin_Spicy_Cup_Noodles]]. I like
Shin a bit more because it has mushrooms. But this is a damn good cup of
noodles for not that much money. I found you at the Dollar General!

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Calories | 390cal |
| Fat | 13g |
| Carbohydrates | 57g |
| Sodium | 1070mg |
| Protein | 10g |

[^1]: [https://www.nissin.com/en_jp/ir/library/file/2025/2q_presentation_material.pdf](https://www.nissin.com/en_jp/ir/library/file/2025/2q_presentation_material.pdf) ([archived](https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreiaixuduouyscrxe5royg43hd5ub7gbzbvx2k7hc3s7ghgfl7xki2q))

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lwxpgowkxc2f"]]
