[[!meta title="Instant Noodles Review — Nissin Hot & Spicy Fire Wok Volcanic Mongolian Beef"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

This takes the prize of having the longest name of any cup noodles I've
reviewed. Incidentally these are the first Nissin instant noodle I've reviewed
too. Nissin are the company behind Top Ramen, those stupid little blocks of
noodles wrapped in plastic that cost like $0.30. Maruchan sells a competing
instant noodle block for around the same price. I'm sure the margins on both are
miserable.

Nissin makes the things called brand-name Cup Noodles too. In the US Cup Noodles
are not remarkable but in Japan they have one called Chili Tomato Cup Noodle
which I have a soft spot for because, before I stepped foot in a [[Yoshinoya]]
in the first few days I [[lived in Tōkyō|Sophia_University]], I had these
noodles in my little APA hotel room alongside the odd propaganda they display in
the APA hotels, notably
[『本当の日本の歴史　理論近現代史』](https://www.apa.co.jp/newsrelease/8325), a
book written by the founder of the hotel chain. The book is provided in
Japanese or English, the English title being "The Real History of Japan,
Theoretical Modern History", in many of the APA rooms. The book denies or
justifies about every bad thing Japan has done in the past; there are a lot of
bad things the books deny. The hotel was damn cheap though.

Anyway.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreid6oqcctgsufhii7s75aawjson7ihjkmvsoxkkz32i2fr6uar7tti" size=medium]]
</figure>

I may've let the noodles cook longer than instructed because I got caught up
letting [[Mogul]] run around in the ~5 inches of snow we got today.

The noodles soak up the broth well, and I can tell it's going to spicy as fuck
already because of just the residual broth. It makes the noodles oily, and this
oily texture reminds me of [soupless
rāmen](https://public-demo.hooya.wesl.ee/cid/bafkreihj7edy35b227jzxyw2ixdkb326eysyrm65q6i4ht46kynzb2s42u)
or mazemen. There are a great number of noodles here too which makes this quite
filling. It has the skin of chopped peppers too because fuck you, if you bought
the thing called Hot Spicy Fire Wok Volcanic Mongolian Beef Cup Noodles you
probably wanted it to be hot. And if you didn't know it was going to be hot,
seek help!

On first sip the broth seems deep and flavorful. On further consideration,
however, I think this is somewhat of a distraction caused by the heat of the
broth. It's a fine broth, an above-average one for instant noodles; a convincing
beef broth. I'm sure the paste that provided the heat contributed to much of the
oily texture. Otherwise it tastes like a typical powder-derived soup.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Calories | 580cal |
| Fat | 24g |
| Carbohydrates | 78g |
| Sodium | 1910mg |
| Protein | 11g |

