[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Nissin Cup Noodles Seafood"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

While researching [[Maruchan_Cup_Chili_Piquin_and_Shrimp]] I discovered
seafood flavor cup noodles are probably [Nissin's most popular cup noodle]
(https://prtimes.jp/main/html/rd/p/000000023.000135215.html), which was a very
surprising fact to learn. I kept this knowledge in a dusty corner of my brain
until today when I saw on the side of Nissin's Seafood cup noodles in H-Mart the
words "#1 in Japan". I guess it's true!

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigm7v52nbzahsablv7o5oc4lal7yop6mh6kvan35z2bv4l6of5t3a" size=medium]]
</figure>

Seafood is one of Nissn's oldest varieties too, introduced in August 1984[^1].
There are many variations of Seafood, like Seafood BIG, Lite, PRO, soupless ann
[MILK](https://www.nissin.com/jp/product/items/13423/). The one I have today has
kana on the front but this is just a misdirection, Nissin (USA) makes these in
California. It's a nice touch though and lets you know this cup might be a bit
different than cup noodles you're used to domestically. And it is.

As soon as I breach the lid I take a smell by accident, immediately I'm reminded
of an aquarium or the live seafood section at a Chinese grocer. After I've
cooked them they taste like they smelled: fishy. It's not surprising but if you
don't like the smell of fish you will not like the Seafood cup noodles. Even the
noodles, which are so thin that you'd imagine they would not absorb much broth,
taste like it too. It's quite powerful.

The noodles are thin like angel hair pasta. They break easily and have very
little bite but for that reason are easy to eat quickly. 

The broth is great, just the right amount of fishy and salty, and the floating
seafood bits add excellent variety. There's crab, shrimp, pollock, egg and
pacific whiting. After I finish the broth I sense a vague flour-y texture
coating the inside of my mouth. The second ingredient after enriched flour is
"tapioca starch", which may lend to this texture. There's a lot of fish too
which is a welcome change from most seafood-themed cup noodles, especially
[[Maruchan_Cup_Chili_Piquin_and_Shrimp]] which had the world's tiniest
portion of equally tiny dehydrated shrimp. Nissin has redeemed seafood cup
noodles.

[^1]: [https://www.nissin.com/jp/company/news/749/](https://www.nissin.com/jp/company/news/749/)
Overall, Nissin Cup Noodles Seafood is a flavorful and fishy option for seafood lovers. The broth is full-bodied and the variety of seafood bits adds a nice touch. The thin noodles may not have much bite, but they make for a quick and easy meal. Just be prepared for a strong fishy smell and taste throughout the experience. If you enjoy seafood and don't mind the strong flavors, this cup noodle might just become one of your favorites.
