[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — NOS"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

I'm a big NOS fan.

<table class="no-border">
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-nos.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
</table>

I have written about [[NOS_Zero_Sugar]] here before. It is a relatively new
introduction compared to how old the OG NOS is which was introduced in 2005 and
was the first energy drink to share the name with an automotive accessory. NOS
was sold in a canister resembling an actual NOS canister (the one for cars) but
this canister was discontinued in 2015[^1]. Interestingly, it was only 22 fl oz
where the new twist-top is 24 fl oz; I thought the old canister was bigger than
this new aluminum one but I guess that's how time distorts memory. They have
always come in the smaller 16 fl oz cans though.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicnjm7lnb2fv5qflxe2blh6utf5gfvtrbydkcrx5pcpibxibe7dya" size=medium]]
</figure>

There is a distinctive metallic taste up front. Then it turns very sour. The
taste throughout is grapefruit. It's like a grapefruit was sprinkled with citric
acid then thrown 100mph at a sheet of aluminum and it splattered and you ate the
pulp off the ground like an animal. That's what it's like, the NOS. And it has
an energy blend called CMPLX6 with 240mg of caffeine in the 24 fl oz can.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 24 floz |
| Calories | 320cal |
| Caffeine | 240mg |

[^1]: I gleaned this knowledge by peeking through the Wikipedia edit history of
      [[!wikipedia NOS_(drink)]]. This rougly lines up with its acquisition by Monster
