[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — NOS Zero Sugar"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

I love NOS. I even have this userbox on my [[Me]] page.

<table class="no-border">
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-nos.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
</table>

It's the first energy drink themed after an automotive product; it's one of the
OG energy drinks, having launched in 2004. It is currently owned by Monster
Beverage but was formerly a Coke product. It changed hands in 2015 from Coke to
Monster; it was originally created by Fuze who sold it to Coke in 2007, a fact
I've mentioned [[before|Living_In_The_Energy_Drink_Renaissance]] on this
website.

This is their zero sugar alternative to full-sugar NOS. As I understand there
was a different formula for a similar zero-sugar NOS prior to this[^1] which
came in a white can. In addition there was NOS Zero[^2] in a gray can. Both of
these have been discontinued. The current iteration of NOS sugar-free comes in a
can with the same colorway as the full-sugar NOS but it just says “ZERO” above
the name “NOS”.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreie3i5ozpz7qvah77itijqueqhtjbod5y6wmvi4kcpmlr6fnice4sy" size=medium]]
</figure>

The taste of the zero sugar NOS is whatever; it is much less caustic than OG
NOS, maybe even a bit bitter. For a zero-sugar I'd choose the OG over this any
day in terms of taste, but the zero sugar bit of this is great. With 200mg of
caffeine in a 16oz can this is a great way to enjoy roughly the taste of NOS
without all its sugar.

[^1]: [Review for NOS Sugar Free](https://caffeinetheenergyblog.blogspot.com/2012/03/review-for-nos-sugar-free.html) on caffeinetheenergyblog.blogspot.com

[^2]: [Review for NOS Zero](https://caffeinetheenergyblog.blogspot.com/2013/04/review-for-nos-zero.html) on caffeinetheenergyblog.blogspot.com
