Olive oil is pressed from the flesh of [[Olives]].

There are two main types of olive oil, refined and unrefined, and there are a
few different grades of olive oil. Exhaustively, below, the first two items are
unrefined and the rest are refined.

- Extra virgin olive oil
- Virgin olive oil
- Refined olive oil
- Pure olive oil
- Olive pomace oil

Virgin oil has slightly higher acidity than extra virgin oil. Refined and pure
oil are made by refining virgin olive oils. Finally, pomace oil is made from oil
extracted from the olive pit and is only used for cooking: it has a higher smoke
point than unrefined olive oils like virgin and extra virgin.

In ancient Greece olive oil was an important export, as important as wine and
pottery, and its utility made olives a staple crop in the Mediterranean. Olive
oil was used as food, fuel and as a beauty cosmetic. It was given to athletes as
trophies celebrating their victories (it was often quickly re-sold by these
athletes), who themselves annointed their bodies with it traditionally before
competition.

In the Jewish story of the miracle of Hanukkah, also known as the [[!wikipedia
Miracle_of_the_cruse_of_oil]], a night's worth of olive oil burned in a menorah
for 8 nights. After the defiling of the second temple in Jerusalem by the
Greeks, returning Jewish soldiers who'd been fighting the Greeks sought to
purify and rededicate the temple:

> As the Maccabees searched for pure oil to light the menorah with, they found
> just one cruse of pure oil which still had the seal of the High Priest, the
> symbol of pure oil. This cruse contained just enough pure oil to keep the
> menorah lit for one day. In order to make pure oil however, individuals making
> the oil must be in a state of spiritual purity. Being soldiers returning from
> the battlefield, the Maccabees were deemed impure, and therefore could not make
> pure oil. Since the process of ritual purification after touching a corpse lasts
> seven days, the Maccabees could only produce additional pure oil after eight
> days: seven days of becoming pure including one day, once pure, to actually make
> the oil. Therefore, the Maccabees would have been unable to light the Menorah
> for seven days before the completion of new pure oil. Miraculously, the one
> cruse of oil had lasted for all eight days, and by that point new pure oil was
> ready.

Today olive oil is sold at the grocery store. Amid canola and vegetable oil it
is not notable to the passerby except for being priced moderately higher. There
are grades of olive oil and they are used for different things. Extra virgin
olive oil (EVOO) and virgin olive oil are great for dipping. Both can be rich in
flavor served cold with bread, balsamic, salt and pepper.

The gentle oils like EVOO and virgin olive oil denature when severe heat is
applied to them as they have a low-ish smoke point.

Refined, pure and pomace oils have a much higher smoke point. That means they
are suitable for frying and searing things like steak and fish. Steak,
especially, can demand high temperatures to sear. Olive oil can fry just as
canola, vegetable and grapeseed oils can fry, provided you pick the one with an
appropriate smoke point:

| Oil                        | Smoke Point (°F) |
| -------------------------- | ---------------- |
| **Extra virgin olive oil** | ~410°F           |
| **Virgin olive oil**       | ~420°F           |
| **Refined olive oil**      | ~465°F           |
| **Pure olive oil**         | ~465°F           |
| **Olive pomace oil**       | ~465°F           |

Some believe olive oil, particularly extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) is healthier
than other oils. Yes, it's moderately healthier. But in the same breath you're
likely to die from something else well before the canola oil does you in.
