<figure class=left-float><video width=360 height=270 controls>
<source src="https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreied5c2tatjvu2wku3vka2etmmy6xkwoya6aph5uefwxsoivhfdxqe" type="video/webm">
</video>
</figure>
Last May I bought my current [[Devices/Z_Flip4]]. A few days ago a sensor at the
hinge began to malfunction, causing the device to believe it was closed when it
was actually open. I'm not sure it's entirely a hardware fault of the sensor as
I see weird screen artifacts when I open or close it, though maybe it's a result
of the sensor rapidly toggling the display. But regardless it has rendered the
device unusable for some time after it has been unfolded.

Luckily, visionary I am, I bought the device warranty for $11 / mo, and even
though I figured the cause of device destruction would have been from my own
hand, this warranty covers everything short of intentional destruction of the
device. This phone has two screens after all: a main screen and a cover display,
and I wagered that I would have cracked at least one of them, but the reality is
that I rarely drop this thing as it fits so snugly into my pocket when folded.

I have heard that another failure mode is that dust can get under the screen
and can cause the screen to pop out after unfolding it.

Comparing Old and New
---------------------

After activating the warranty I received exactly the same device roughly 3 days
later. With both phones in hand, the first thing I immediately noticed is how
prominent the crease is on the used one. The crease is easily detectable by
touch alone and when held sideways in slanting light it is very clear where the
screen folds. With the display on, however, I can detect no difference between
the new and old as the crease is invisible to the eye in this case.

There is almost no perceptible crease in the new phone at the hinge, which is
amazing considering the phone physically folds to half the size. The hinge is
stiffer than my used Z Flip 4, however, and takes some effort to open with one
hand.

Otherwise they're exactly the same phone. Here's to another year!
