[[!meta title="Instant Noodles Review — Ottogi Yeul Ramen"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

I picked these instant noodles up at HMart in the same trip I bought the
[[Nongshim_Shin_Spicy_Cup_Noodles]]. Actually I picked a lot of things up this
trip. Nevermind that I spent like $250 because I went a bit overboard buying
ingredients for Japanese hot pot and _gyūdon_, but you definitely need at least
_mirin_, _sake_, soy sauce, dried anchovies and 25 lbs of short-grain rice to
make gyūdon from scratch. Maybe I'll post a recipe here when I make it again
since I still have about 25 lbs of short-grain rice to do this with.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihsa4qlssjhxbkocbd7pvu4rjbznryvtpzz6vu42vbpvkqkjnwtoi" size=medium]]
</figure>

Ottogi Yeul Ramen comes in two form factors, bowl and package; I got the bowl
because I love that it's all self-contained and only needs hot water to make. In
the bowl is a powder flavor packet; there are dehydrated vegetables already in
with the dry noodles.

The package recommends pouring boiling water over the noodles and waiting four
minutes but I overcooked it by a few minutes by mistake. The noodles were still
pleasantly firm despite this which surprised me. The noodle taste is fairly neutral and,
since they soak up some broth, lets this flavor shine though instead, which is
very light and thin. The broth taste is not aggressive but is redolent of
mushrooms or fish stock. There's no fish in this but there are dried little
mushrooms, maybe lending to that taste.

The green onion is a nice touch and they rehydrate well in the broth; the
vegetables otherwise are not remarkable. The mushrooms are actually net negative
since they somehow lose all firmness and texture.

The broth is spicy but not as spicy as the [[Nongshim
Shin|Nongshim_Shin_Spicy_Cup_Noodles]] I mentioned earlier. It does not have an
aggressive or deep flavor, I'd describe it as light, thin, and similar to an
_iriko dashi_, a comparison which is top-of-mind as I made this type of fish
stock yesterday for _gyūdon_.
