[[!tag Aesthetics]]

As a young man I was blessed with a high basal metabolic rate. Although I
played sports and played in a marching band for a time I never needed to
consider what I was eating, how much exercise was I getting, how much I weighed
etc. For the first 20 years of my life physical fitness was never a thought in my
mind; it was something I never considered a priority or really considered at all.
Even into my 20s I didn't think much of my overall wellbeing; I picked up
running to maintain what I had come to consider my twink-ish figure but never
with any fitness goal in mind or any consideration of my physical capacity
beyond endurance and whether or not I could see my Adonis belt.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreieudxd5ca4blxdgotxcymuy5bgxwi6cugf5eblex7r2qiddxoojoe" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidn72izlw7qxakdpicvxdxcfjxwplpd7tnbgytsufleopzsywgy24" size=medium]]
<figcaption>2019 〜 2020 (23)</figcaption>
</figure>

... and honestly for most people who are a healthy (1) weight for their (2)
height then it does not matter what one's body composition is. The metric that
considers those two factors is called the BMI (body-mass index). The BMI is a
fine metric if one only wishes to gauge how un/healthy one is, as a sedentary
individual, measured against a representative average of one's demographic or
country. It is a *convenient rule-of-thumb* for many. Presently this how the CDC
classifies Americans (me) based on BMI circa 2023:

BMI        | Classification
-----------|----------------
< 18.5     | Underweight
18.5 〜 25 | Normal weight
25 〜 30   | Overweight
30 〜 35   | Class 1 obesity
35 〜 40   | Class 2 obesity
> 40       | Class 3 obesity

Throughout my years in college I weighed within ~4% of 130lbs at almost all
times. At 5'10 that clocked me in at a BMI of **~18.7**. I didn't note my weight
often (or even own a scale for that matter) but that's the range I'd see at the
doctor's office and on incidental scales.

The BMI metric is naïve of everything but height + weight which makes it a very
poor indicator of body composition. The BMI can be simple because it makes
assumptions about body-fat percentages and muscle distributions that are
good-enough approximations for many but are simply not accurate for athletes or
non-sedentary individuals.

As I began to train and incorporate anabolic exercises in addition to the cardio
routine I began during college I formed goals around my overall fitness and
wellness. I ate more protein and carbohydrates to supplement my new caloric
deficit, the result of more exercise, and to encourage faster muscle healing.
Seemingly the work has paid off so far; and I can bench 1pl8 (135lb) where
before I could barely bench half that amount. Considering that I achieved 1pl8
at 143lb that means I can *almost* bench my body weight (but not quite). If
you're reading this I can probably already bench my body-weight and above!

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiexf7rzn77tiw7g5dvg6vvjlc7houhhe4rlu6tpdwlfda4oemqgtm" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiecjv76alj5yxm5vrodmsfuagwkfq5nveigufqmj5qwsoskqtc7ha" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibgwqqiiyo3k3vbj2qgptgzbmuqsdl5soabgrsyp2ncyune6nlcc4" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifuklm6hpcjca6kfiid3iblarbp2vhtysyc5ik2iahjlrlmcx7qwe" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreieldvanhzqmxhzytuod7dxtbsf7uyasmnbb33hzzb4juripzluhaa" size=medium]]
<figcaption>2022 〜 2023 (26)</figcaption>
</figure>


I began training in November 2022 but began a serious regiment in late January
2023. That involves going to a gym 3 times every week and targeting one of (1)
arms + shoulders, (2) chest + back or (3) legs. Luckily there is a gym roughly 5
minutes from my home so this is not difficult to accomplish once I had set my
mind on the task of training regularly.

The beginning of this training coincided with an increase of *breadth* in my
life: I began to [[draw|Drawing]] in my free-time here too. The idea was to fill
my idle-time with things that are life-affirming and emotionally, physically
stimulating. Drawing fills the former, emotional niche while anabolic exercise
has filled the latter, physical niche.

Curiosity in my phyiscal progress has tempted me to seek out alternates to the
BMI for measuring body health. As I am focused on increasing the amount of
weight I can lift with each muscle group I find that my *body-fat percentage* is
the most relevant thing to track. My total weight minus my body-fat should yield
my lean body mass. I measure my waist + neck (+ height + weight) regularly
and use the [US
Army's](https://www.army.mil/e2/downloads/rv7/r2/policydocs/r600_9.pdf) method
for calculating this value. This gives me a better idea of my body-fat
percentage but is still not super-extremely accurate. To be more accurate one
would need an MRI and I do not care to drill down in that much detail at this
point.

For example, here are my measurements for this calculation from late April,
2023:

Measurement Type    | Value
--------------------|-------
Age                 | 26
Sex                 | Yes
Weight              | 142.2
Height              | 5'11"
Neck circumference  | 13.5"
Waist circumference | 30"

That yields an estimate for my body-fat percentage at **11.8%**. You should try
taking these measurements at home if you have not! It's good to know in general
and especially if you want a benchmark against which you can measure progress.
