[[!tag Aesthetics]]

Piercings are cool. I have 10.

+ L ear lobe (x3)
+ R ear lobe (x3)
+ R ear flat (x2)
+ L + R nipples

I was inspired to try them after much previous contemplation after I visited
Kabukichō during a [[trip to Tōkyō in 2023|Tokyo_23]] and saw the Jirai-kei
fashion that has become popular in recent years, especially around that part of
Shinjuku. Jirai-kei itself is a controversial topic but the people I saw and the
way they dressed stuck with me and I found it beautiful even with its dark
color.

In any case, piercings are far less permanent body modifications than tattoos; I
love how tattoos look on other people but I could _never_ settle on a piece of
art to display on my body for most of the rest of my life; that's such a large
committment. With a piercing you can simply remove it and it will heal with
proper care; after that it's almost as if you never had it.

Ear Lobes
---------

I had my original four lobe piercings done back to back. It didn't realy hurt at
all, just a quick sting like getting the flu shot. Both sides were pierced at
the upper and lower lobes so this procedure was done 4 times; I was in + out of
the shop in ~20 minutes, accounting for filling out paperwork and picking out
the stainless-steel studs. I can 100% recommend going to a dedicated shop like a
tattoo + piercing place, at least somewhere that uses a hollow needle to pierce,
not a gun.

<figure class="image-square small">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiftqopozwpwlb57hpatr4p4edib4kui3mhwvwlmuglpc4sjikz55y" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibl5troaroziuiefylsbziscbeaui5eraidus27auzbaye6f2k6d4" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidviqwl52nz7pigmx2huigvcwcowddvwsxxbbulbhcld6jsjbamwa" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Ear piercing detail</figcaption>
</figure>

These initial ear piercings healed fully in about 4 months at which point I was
able to change them out for other jewelry. I really like the look of the studs I
got at the shop when I had the work done, so I wear these studs most often.
There were many other types of studs at the shop made of different materials
such as opalite or stainless steel finished with gold; I prefer the ones I got
as I don't think I'd like the look of any white or gold finish on me, though
it's hard to tell just looking at them next to your ear; titanium was a close
runner-up.

My ears are unfortunately not suitable for an industrial piercing that runs
front to back as the top, most-forward part of my ear is too close to my head; I
was advised such a piercing likely would be rejected by my body for that reason.
Learning this information was a bummer, and I also found out that the industrial
connects the ear's helix to the anti-helix and so for the same reason I am also
a poor candidate for a helix piercing, which I originally thought was possible
in place of an industrial.

It's unfortunate that I have to play within the bounds of the rules of the game,
marked by my anatomy, but I *did* find very recently that a piercing through the
flat cartilage near the top and edge of my ear, called a "flat" piercing, was
do-able and would look similar; I did it while vising NYC for work reasons. Also
while on this 2-week trip I expanded my lobe piercings from 2 to 3. These 4 were
my first lobe piercings since my original 4 in late [[2023]]. Being pierced
through cartilage certainly hurt more but not a significant amount. Maybe having
my nipples pierced (below) readied me for anything.

Nipples
-------

After learning I could not have an industrial I decided to have my both nipples
done. Having these done hurt significantly more than my initial 4 lobes. I felt
that I was ready for the nipple piercings but maybe I was not *that* ready for
them, they hurt quite a bit. This may be because of my anatomy again as mine lay
quite flat on my chest (below); I was worried about the feasibility of having
them pierced but it seems that skilled piercers can do almost any type of
nipple, even inverted ones. The piercer cleaned the area off, marked the entry +
exit points and pushed through the entry mark to the exit mark using a 16 gauge
needle with the jewelry already attached. 16 gauge was needed because mine are
small.

I have heard the pain described as “minimal” maybe rivaling that of an upper ear
lobe but honestly the entry stung significantly more than either lobes; after
the needle was removed the pain went away and I was left with a vague soreness
for a half hour afterwards. Now there is only pain if they get snagged on
clothing which I've quickly learned to not do.

<figure class="image-square small">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihg65lzkmeh74dndybfgazek24gudnuu36anglvgzc2ctvsdi3zfi" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigkefrwfjdiit6ldloihlc64nclorxesp5bk5eyezc4yo5rmzge6e" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigamlhewqbmvlkijvgvycpi4xaiaumz2btir4dsm6skhvwat4cjxq" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Nipple piercing before / after / after detail</figcaption>
</figure>


