[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Raptor Energy"]]
[[!tag Review Energy_Drink]]

Information on _Raptor_ on the English Internet is scarce. I did a bit of
research, looking through import receipts, by looking up the importer I found on
the side of the plastic bottle, EDT USA corporation, and finding that this
bottle was exported from Guatemala by Alimentos Maravilla, S.A.

The original Raptor flavor was introduced in 2008[^1]; a cola flavor soon
followed in 2009. I've never heard or seen of this energy drink until a friend
offered it to me. The bottle I have in front of me is a PET bottle with a screw
cap, which is not typical for energy drinks in the [[current
age|Living_In_The_Energy_Drink_Renaissance]] when most things come in cans.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreih7zi53sg6eb3jcfik2zfygnxwrup6fkilegwpadsxtcz6wnmjsly" size=medium]]
</figure>

The smell is so sweet, like candy. This is not surprising considering it has 70g
of sugar in a 20.3 floz bottle. There are other sizes, [up to
1500ml](http://www.esdemaravilla.com/web/user/ver_producto?id=9), which features
168g of sugar... wow! That's about as much sugar per unit volume as a Coke.

Throughout the taste of Raptor is sour, redolent of Sweet Tarts. I can't stop
thinking about how much sugar is in this; 70g is a lot. Raptor tastes great but
at what cost? The flavor is not nuanced or dynamic like how I'm used to with
drinks from prolific brands like Red Bull with their 2025
[[Red_Bull_Sping_Edition_Grapefruit_Blossom]].

I finished the bottle and it made my head hurt for a bit. Overall it's a great
taste but I'm satisfied just having tried it once.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Volume | 20.3floz |
| Caffeine | 180mg |
| Sugar | 70g |
| Calories | 280cal |

[^1]: [https://guatemalasaludable.blogspot.com/2008/01/raptor-nuevo-producto-en-la-linea-de.html](https://guatemalasaludable.blogspot.com/2008/01/raptor-nuevo-producto-en-la-linea-de.html)

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lmgfyjjlc22r"]]
