[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Monster Bad Apple"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Released on October 28, 2025, I got this one two weeks after the official
release. The first real edition I tasted was [[last year's Winter
Edition|Red_Bull_Winter_Edition_Iced_Vanilla_Berry]] which was eye-opening, so
to come back and review a new Winter Edition is special to me.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreickt4prrpun47rc3amg3evb7fiugji2tnvoynwrtrlcnnwpfwm6d4" size=medium]]
</figure>

I'm a bit sick today so my taste is off. But even in my state I can detect this
year's Winter Edition's strong ginger taste. It reminds me of the handful of
ginger beers that have ginger sediment at the bottom. You know, the ones in
glass bottles that have a cloud of finely grated ginger at the bottom that turn
milky white when you shake the bottle.

The ginger flavor is overwhelming and I struggle to find any other notes. But
luckily, strong is just how I like my ginger drinks. Some might not like it but
I love it for just that reason. 26g of sugar in the 8.4 floz one but not too
sweet. Easy to drink with a strong kick.

Now, [Japan got a similar
can](https://www.energydrinkmania.net/en/red_bull/redbull_winter_edition_2025_apple_japan.html)
which lacks the "ginger" text on the front. Drin-kun's review mentions the
ginger flavor of the Japan flavor is subtle. Well, the US one is definitely not
subtle. Though it's not spicy like real ginger, it's still very present in the
profile. I haven't tried the Japan one so I'm not sure if this is a real
difference or a difference in palates.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 7.4 floz |
| Calories | 110cal |
| Caffeine | 80mg |
