[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — Red Bull Zero"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Evidently the Red Bull Zero I have in my hands here is a pretty new phenomenon.
Having released on Jan 6 of this year, 2025, it replaces the old Red Bull Zero
in the gray can. Prior to this, there was an older Zero Sugar Red Bull, also
called Red Bull Zero, which came in a gray can. The purpose of both Zero
variants, [[like any zero-sugar variant|Zero_Sugar_,Versus_Sugar_Free]], is to
closely approximate the taste of the original without any of the sugar. To that
end, this new Red Bull Zero uses monk fruit extract, which I had not heard of
until I tried this one. This year's [[zero-sugar Winter
Edition|Red_Bull_Winter_Edition_Iced_Vanilla_Berry_]] uses acesulfame potassium
as a sweetener instead of monk fruit; both use sucralose.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifq5brre7ksptp62ldgprasynoq34g6iaumgsvmv3cqlkcalvazo4" size=medium]]
</figure>

The taste is exceptionally sweet on the first sip, then it evaporates into a
completely vapid flavor, devoid of anything but its sweetener components. It's
exceptionally artificial and scarcely reminds of of Red Bull at all. The sour
apple taste of [[the OG|Red_Bull]] is just not there. Even Red Bull Sugar Free
is more enjoyable to me and more redolent of the king.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicgbsfeetkdurbme7rprg77kx5eh5pn3psdyfgh64s7uygdu2ujhi" size=medium]]
<figcaption>*Not* the king in question</figcaption>
</figure>

