[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — Red Bull Winter Edition Iced Vanilla Berry"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

This is the 2024 entry in Red Bull's seasonal Winter lineup. It comes in a pale
blue can. Here's an upsetting fact: no Winter Edition has ever been made a
permanent flavor, though some Summer Editions have. Until I saw signage pointing
to a 2-for-$5 deal at my local Speedway I didn't realize Red Bull did seasonal
editions like Winter, Summer and sometimes Spring.

The taste of Iced Vanilla Berry starts with the strong flavor of blueberry; the
finish is extremely tart. It's amazing they can pack such a dynamic flavor in a
form factor I've seen so many other manufacturers use to make mostly
[[uninspiring energy drinks|Discover/Energy_Drink]]. If there is a note of
vanilla hiding here it is overwhelmed by the tartness of the drink. The harsh,
distinct carbonation of Red Bull's drinks complements this flavor very well. It
is an extremely well-composed drink; it is my favorite Red Bull I have tasted so
far, second only to the OG [[Red_Bull]]. They have a zero-sugar variant too,
supposedly, which is rare for a limited edition.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigrz7iwwaefbnfhwtf7om3pqkdpkkm657u7rwygwq2f2brz2dkjju" size=medium]]
</figure>

Strong recommend.

Like other Winter Editions this inventory will likely stop being stocked in the
Spring as the only seasonal flavors that have become permanent have been Summer
flavors, which shed their seasonal name and adopt a color once they are
canonicalized in Red Bull lore. Sometimes old color editions are replaced with
the new canon.

Winter Edition is only available from Fall [[2024]] to Spring [[2025]] as it is
seasonal: its inventory melts in April to be replaced by the their Summer
Edition.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 12 floz |
| Calories | 140cal |
| Caffeine | 114mg
