[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Red Bull"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Classic. Original. Iconic. There used to be only one [[Discover/Energy_Drink]]
and it was called Red Bull.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibvvzb7kelahljvhn2imrr277zzgy5rh23lnnxu3m5qgzo7e6kkdy" size=medium]]
</figure>

If you know anything about [[Energy Drink
History|Living_In_The_Energy_Drink_Renaissance]] you'll know that Red Bull is
one of the OGs in the US market, unleashed in 1996, and is the catalyst that
kicked off the production and distribution of every drink here after. It's the
most popular single brand of energy drink on the market and has been for its
entire existence.

The taste is polarizing. Immediately I taste metal which is a very weird but
very distinct forward note. After this my tongue is coated in a mild apple
taste, sour, close to that of a granny smith. It's not easy to drink in any
stretch of the phrase but I love its taste a lot.

There were many redbull imitators in the mid-to-late 00s but most died out. Now,
anything you can get off shelves doesn't come close to the flavor except the OG
Red Bull. Even Red Bull's Zero Sugar type, which should come close to
approximating the flavor (see [[Zero_Sugar_Versus_Sugar_Free]]) doesn't hit the
mark. I think there is, now, little appetite for a sugary Red Bull imitator; any
sugar-free alternative cannot come close in approximation, so nobody cares to
try again. The meta has changed but Red Bull remains at the top of market,
still, somehow. I don't even know many people who drink Red Bull.
