I only just got used to this year's
[[Red_Bull_Spring_Edition_Grapefruit_Blossom]] and now we already have Summer
Edition? And prior to that I didn't even have much time to enjoy
[[Red_Bull_Winter_Edition_Iced_Vanilla_Berry]]? This is the fastest they've
released seasonal editions in the US it seems. It was released here on April
28th, I saw it in stores about a day after. Like the 2 previous seasonal
editions, this one also has a sugar-free variant.

It's weird that they recently discontinued the Peach Edition, because this
Summer Edition is also peach. Compared to the Peach Edition can, this looks much
softer and approachable; Peach Edition looked edgy, even if the colorway was
peach-ish.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibubca3bbednfuxzdrejjgvopelpj6veif7tqbbggoadcww3rze54" size=medium]]
</figure>

The smell of this Summer Edition is dead-to-rights peach. But the taste?

The first flavor I get is a heavy-handed taste of artificial peach; immediately
I'm not a fan. I can see why they discontinued the Peach Edition if it tastes
similar. It _does_ taste the peachiest of any peach energy drink I've had. And
it's also slightly bitter, I like that.

Still, ignoring the frontloaded taste of artificial sweeteners, which is not
characteristic of Red Bull in general, there is a juicy and full-bodied note of
peach and (more diminished) apple lingering in the background. This taste is
amazing. But it doesn't make up for whatever is making this Summer Edition so
artificial and sharp on the front. For that reason it's not easy to drink.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 12 floz |
| Calories | 160cal |
| Caffeine | 114mg |

