[[!tag Aesthetics Diary]]

Recently I've found myself in the care of a Singer “Zig-zag” Sewing Machine
Model 247 from the mid-70s built into a table. I'm not a fan of the aesthetics
of the enclosure as it has all the appearances of a cabinet without the drawers
part. If I was designing this I'd rather just not have an ornate handle on the
front at all (because it's not a drawer) but I'm not one to turn down a free
sewing machine. The copyright date on the manual is 1975.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreib3qn72ahbyagucu27duy5hbhps42srblila4d3bluwgr3js6gzty" size=medium]]
</figure>

I learned everything I could about sewing by reading. It was intimidating at
first but opening the machine up, cleaning it out and lubricating the moving
parts taught me some about how it works internally. After running a few test
patches through I decided to take on a few concrete projects, the first of these
being simply hemming existing clothes.

A well-done alteration can completely change how something looks on your body.
You can go from baggy and shapeless to neat and polished in few stitches.
Hemming also allows you to repurpose clothes and tailor them to suit your needs.

In celebration of this helpful diagram for men's summer style I settled on first
repurposing old jeans into new denim shorts.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiadu2ejgx7bxfhz2ov3nom2cjbyszncdvpsji6n5bd67esywln3ya" size=medium]]
</figure>

I'm a fan of shorts of the 80s; I know a lot of people are not. I think people
deserve to show off their muscle tone where they've got it because I understand
a lot of work goes into maintaining body aesthetics, especially beyond the early
20s. And I think what they turned basketball shorts into is a tragedy. I'm also
<span class=gay-text>gay</span> so this is far from objective.

I don't even mind the shorts that are core to any femboy's aesthetic (see the
above diagram). I own a few pairs of shorts like this and I can tell you the
fabric is thin and the construction is poor and their half-life is measured in
months. Nobody makes men's shorts like they used to.

No matter my disapproving opinions on the evolution of men's hemlines, I'm here
to craft my own clothes. For this project I used the following materials. As it
happens this is just a good collection of sewing material to own anyway for
other basic projects too.

+ Sewing machine
    + Needle
    + Bobbin
    + Enough thread matching the fabric being hemmed
+ Fabric shears
+ Pins
+ Iron + board for pressing hems
+ Jeans which fit me at the waist (legs not important)

I had to buy my jeans from a Goodwill because I honestly haven't worn
full-length, regular denim jeans since probably high-school.

I learned everything I could about sewing by reading. It was intimidating at
first but opening the machine up, cleaning it out and lubricating the moving
parts taught me some about how it works internally. After running a few test
patches through I decided to take on a few concrete projects, the first of these
being simply hemming existing clothes.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreictc52fdzupnlwmckwf7idwzx3rmzmyfr4supqd5fh6ygaaozjsw4" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifmhdslr6rvtdjcirepgrtuqvghj7v3zsihi5cm3ujotjnx6auqey" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Before (left) and after (right) of the Denim Demolition
Derby</figcaption>
</figure>

The bottom pair in the above “after” image sports a “raw edge” which I did not hem
while the top pair is hemmed using a straight stitch. The fraying on the bottom
pair happened naturally after a few cycles in the washer and dryer but looked
kinda dorky before it really begin to fray.

With my new pairs of jeans I measured down to the length I wanted. Using fabric
chalk I marked down to about where my knuckles rest against my leg when standing
straight up meaning these shorts would have about a 2.5-inch inseam. I then
marked 1 inch below that, folded the jeans over and cut the legs off at that
spot, making an initial 3.5-inch inseam.

This is necessary to cuff the raw edge for the hem.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreif7t3xegfkarhlho2n3cqqpl6oh6uuwzqspyer5l4kiq3e3vnqpqq" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiegeynknofbuo4cjy2dyonr3r3nm7xg5lytkzfoh52xvwwcr65re4" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreif4s4lrdgatbvxywhkz6xvr7jucykh4oboehcb3aa7ycf5lbw57tu" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Black denim jeans at a 3.5-inch inseam after being cut but before
being hemmed, note the frays already showing at the edge</figcaption>
</figure>

Now, you can either leave them as they are (“raw edge”) or hem them if you
prefer. For one pair I decided to leave them unhemmed just to see how they fray.
I settled on hemming the other two pairs.

To create the hem I turned the new cutoffs inside out then folded the legs up a
half-inch, then folded them over again another half-inch to the first line I
marked at 2.5-inch inseam. The reason for folding twice is so that the raw edge
does not fray and is safely tucked under a layer of fabric. I plugged in my iron
and pressed the folds flat, then pinned them to make sure they would not move
while stitching the hem.

The bobbin in my Singer was already loaded with white thread I used while
practicing on a test patch of denim so I kept it in there and threaded the
needle with black fabric. Bobbin color doesn't matter because it only appears on
the reverse of the fabric.

Turning the dial on the sewing machine once towards you will begin the stitch.
I backstitch some before moving around the leg just to increase the strength of
the beginning of the stitch.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidhbxzpprxltrou3liow2vtjnhcblmyltkiryrwdqfek7fgrwxbaq" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiamsxse63eyum2uq7k4xjdmn7ohauffzwx47htok3rfyaeimcwlki" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidok2f2jcp7jfjylfq4jz2gnu4duto75z656agglbjpgg6srmvvhu" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Stitching in-progress</figcaption>
</figure>

My machine is controlled by a foot-pedal allowing me to drive the belt with
variable speed. I made sure that the fabric stayed taut by holding onto both
ends as I worked my way down each side, pivoting the workpiece around the bottom
corner, then up the other side, all the while keeping an eye out for any puckers
or pleats in the fabric caused by irregularities in its weave or uneven
stretching.

Once both legs are hemmed cut away any excess thread and press the hems with an
iron to strengthen the stitch.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreib4mlkwqe4pwvzlxjbm6zq7biqij2rr7d2fbtm6izweomha2brkce" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreic2kfrytc4chc4xuaqiwzydy7b4lllzt6xi6dofqd2uaj57fws77i" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifncl5v7rabh3h3km3kyjyt2bjng5pcna4mc7hy5bd5azualzat3i" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreid2nrlub6jea66xoxxs72uavvrerqwmrojmbkrcukhtsbdmllhnou" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Final products, puppy not included</figcaption>
</figure>

I really like how the pockets show past the cuff on the hemmed blue denim pair.
They are comically deep pockets, women's pants typically don't sport these by
the way.

This project was simple enough to complete in one sitting and gave me a chance
to practice using my “new” machine while also giving me a useful new addition to
my summer closet. Now I have one more pair of shorts to wear. I feel confident
that I can take on more complex projects in the future. I'll keep practicing and
experimenting with fabrics and patterns to develop my skills even further. Soon
I'll try my hand at designing and making my own clothes. I'm glad to know the
basics of sewing and to be able to fix clothing and alter garments to better fit
me.

