I live in a home that was built in 2018. Having lived here since 2022 I
would not expect that I'd need to perform much upkeep on this home, but
nevertheless because there are so many moving parts to a home there are at least
some parts that need replacing anyways. Some things are more frustrating,
expensive, and require more expertise to replace than others. One repair which
came up recently within my home was quite small and easy to do and I think more
could benefit from knowing at least how it's done, if not to do it yourself then
to know how to approach hiring someone to do it.

Problem
-------

One day I open the door to my master bedroom and notice the light on the
overhead fan is off even though the light switch for the overhead fan is on. I
toggle the light switch a few times; nothing happens. Toggling the immediately
adjacent fan switch does nothing, also, and the fan remains off no matter how
many times I throw it. The lights and fans in the master bath, adjacent to the
master bedroom, do not work either.

This is a problem. I'd rather be able to use the lights and fans rather than for
them to exist for just decoration. At this moment I believe (and was correct in
believing) that the lights and fans and outlets in both rooms are connected to
the same breaker in the breaker panel.

Background
----------

If you don't know, outlets and fans and lights and stuff are routed through a
building's breaker panel which is responsible for distributing and regulating
the current delivered to all outlets on every breaker's circuit. There are many
individual breakers in a breaker box. With the cover off, mine looks like this:

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidpwg57ok4kwlyxpdt5wr4v4mn7re7u7ds6xua5zdywkr66m3pu2m" size=medium]]
</figure>

To analyze this box, starting from the bottom, there are two very thick cables,
one red and one black, coming through an inlet at the bottom of the box. These
cables are the exclusive conduits for power to my home. They are fed into a 200A
breaker visible in the image. Both these cables carry alternating current (AC)
power signals. They are 180° out of phase, such that when one phase is at its
peak positive voltage (120v) the other is at its peak negative voltage (-120v).
By their powers combined they can provide an appliance with 240v. If you
connected these lines to an oscilloscope you'd see that the signal on these
wires [does not really peak at 120v but at
170v](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Root_mean_square#In_electrical_engineering)
but this is very beside the point unless you care what the difference between
measuring RMS and peak voltage is. In any case, no matter how you measure it,
these wires transmit power to my home from the street.

The power company ensures these cables have a nominal 240v RMS voltage across
them. This is the standard RMS voltage in all 50 US states, US territories, some
Central American countries and some regions of Japan. The frequency across these
places may differ but that's not important right now.

In addition to these two cables there is a single neutral cable, provided by the
power company, tapped from the center of the same upstream transformer which
provides the 240v. Relative to the cables carrying AC power this neutral wire is
a constant 0v so any appliance provided with neutral wire and any one of the power
wires will see a 120v RMS signal.

Anyway, none of this happens in the home. It all happens at a transformer
somewhere within my neighborhood, and each transformer in the neighborhood feeds
a few houses. I think these are the small green boxes I see every couple houses
here. Inside my breaker box I only get three wires: the two thick power lines
and a neutral. The neutral is likely grounded to the Earth with a grounding rod
very nearby. Older homes have metal plumbing so the ground can be short to Earth
via the home plumbing itself.

In the breaker box picture, coming out of the top of the 200A breaker are two metal
bus bars that are sort of gold colored which feed a series of 15A to 20A
breakers. These breakers feed the rooms and appliances in my home. Many rooms
are fed from one breaker, but if at any point appliances on any breaker exceed
the breaker's rated amperage the breaker will trip and cut power to the rooms on
the breaker completely. This is a safety thing provided by breakers to prevent
house fires. Previously this guarantee was provided by fusesqbut fuses are
little strips of metal that burn up when amperage exceeds the fuse rating and
fuses were a pain in the ass to replace so everyone uses electromechanical
breakers now. You can toggle them on or off by throwing a physical switch, which
toggles whether power is delivered to the circuit from the bus through the
breaker.

As you may be aware, there is electrical code which enforces safety measures for
outlets in bathrooms, kitchens and sometimes bedrooms because of increased risk
of ground faults due to the presence of water. That's because running just 0.01A ~
0.02A through you can cause muscles to contract and can make it hard for you to
let go of a live wire! Even small current running directly through your heart
can kill you too; as little as 10μA can cause fibrilation. But don't worry
because anything under 200v will probably just travel along your skin, never
contract your muscles and you'll probably reflexively flinch back and probably
not die. But better safe than sorry! That's the reason for safety devices like
**GFCI** (Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters) which is the particular device
installed in bathrooms and kitchens to cut power much earlier than the 15A
breaker itself.

A GFCI breaker will typically trip if there is a difference in current of at
most 6mA between the hot wire and the neutral return wire because the presence
of a current differential means current is finding some other path to ground on
that circuit, possibly through you! A GFCI breaker, at least the one I have
installed in the panel, will also trip on overcurrent.

Solution
--------

Throwing the breaker back to the "on" position turned the lights back on for a
day. Then the breaker tripped again. Again I threw it back and it stayed on for
another day until tripping. We went back and forth for a few days until I
decided the breaker was in need of replacing. There is additionally a little
status light on this breaker that flashes when it trips and sometimes it would
flash 6 times, indicating a self-test failure.

Replacing it did the trick. I went out and bought one on the assumption that
mine was bad and, sure enough, replacing it stopped the intermittent tripping.
These are the tools I needed:

- Phillips head screwdriver or bit (panel screws)
- **Square (Robertson) S2 screwdriver or bit** (breaker and bus bar screws)
- Correct breaker

In the US a lot of electrical work requires a square screwdriver. I have no idea
why this is the case. Evidently Canada uses square drivers for a lot more stuff
than the US does, probably because they are strictly better screws and were
[invented by a Canadian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P._L._Robertson).

In addition to not having the correct screwdriver before I began, I bought the
wrong breaker twice. Third time was the charm. So you can avoid what I did and
learn, I bought these breakers, in order:

1. Non-GFCI 15A breaker (fits but not GFCI/AFCI)
2. 15A GFCI/AFCI Square-D breaker [GFTCB115CS](https://www.eaton.com/us/en-us/skuPage.GFTCB115CS.html) (doesn't fit in my panel)
3. 15A GFCI/AFCI Cutler-Hammer breaker [CH115GF](https://www.eaton.com/us/en-us/skuPage.CHFGF115.html) (correct!)

My first mistake was not realizing that GFCI/AFCI breakers exist. I thought that
was only technology that existed at the outlet in the form of "test" buttons but
no, GFCI/AFCI can live on the breaker too. GFCI breakers eliminate the need for
individual protection at the outlet.

Secondly, my panel is made by [[!wikipedia Eaton_Corporation]] which makes
breakers for both [[!wikiedia Square_D]] panels (Eaton calls these
UL-Classified) and Cutler-Hammer panels, a brand which Eaton acquired.
Mistakenly, I bought the GFCI/AFCI Square-D breaker before learning this.

Finally, I bought the correct breaker, a 15A cutler-hammer GFCI/AFCI breaker,
part number CH115GF.

To replace the breaker, throw the main breaker (in my case, the 200A one) and
remove the breaker panel. Mine had six screws along the edges. Throwing the
big breaker will deenergize everything above it (remember the main breaker
itself is still is energized from the power company so do not touch it!) and
with this out of the way you can freely work on the breaker with less risk of
getting zapped.

With that breaker thrown you can safely rock the troublesome smaller breaker (in
this case the 15A one I am replacing) off the bus by pressing on the end which
is furthest from the center of the panel, at least for Cutler-Hammer breakers,
because Cutler-Hammer breakers have a hook on the bottom which hooks onto a
metal piece on the bus bar and secures it in place.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigu5rmn2s37opuyeq6it2ro4ipsc25c6rsb5ftmgzcgspdyt3oioa" size=medium]]
<figcaption>A Cutler-Hammer breaker halfway out of the panel with wires
disconnected</figcaption>
</figure>

With the breaker only attached by the wires, loosen the screws holding the hot
and return wires in place with a square screwdriver bit (S2). Then, trace the
breaker's pigtail connection to the neutral bus bar, loosen this screw, and
fully remove the breaker. Pop in the new breaker, connecting the hot, return and
pigtail wires in the same configuration as before you removed the old breaker.
Ensure the wires are held securely and the breaker and neutral bus screws are
sufficiently tight such that the wires will not just pop out.

[Eazy](https://youtu.be/fJuapp9SORA) enough!
