[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — Rip It Citrus X"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Rip It has a special place in my heart. It is a low-cost energy drink with
160mg of caffeine per 16oz can, and is a relatively old brand in the world of
energy drinks. My brief [[history of energy drinks in the
US|Living_In_The_Energy_Drink_Renaissance]] barely mentions it as it is an
underrepresented energy drink on convenience store shelves. A contract with the
US Department of Defense pushed Rip It into production in 2004. As the product
of a government contract it was
widely used within the military where cases of 8oz cans of 2 different flavors
were shipped with platoons deployed to Afghanistan. I'm unsure of if this
contract still exists today but National Beverage Corp (ticker: NASDAQ:FIZZ)
still produces this drink at a crazy low cost, undercutting most competitors by
probably 50%. For instance this 16oz can of Citrus X was $1.49. Still, these are
rather hard to find if you're not looking. There is a [store locator
tool](https://www.ripitenergy.com/energy-finder/) that can help.

It is not immediately obvious what any of the Rip It flavors are. Citrus X could
be absoultely any kind of citrus. Rip It comes in even more confusing names like
[[Rip_It_Tribute_C.Y.P.-X|C.Y.P.-X]], Power and F-Bomb.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreielkkimm6g52rhah3rv77qudrwlifhvrjqtab3z5laa5ymkpm5eey" size=medium]]
</figure>

Citrus X tastes like artificial orange, like a Fanta or a Sunkist. The
carbonation is refreshing and powerful. There is a slight aftertaste of cream
soda here as well. It's an interesting flavor. All of this is sullied by the
stickiness of the high fructose corn syrup on the finish. This thing *is* $1.49
after all.

The taste of artificial orange does a poor job of hiding this 51g of sugar;
these are the sacrifices we make at this price-point, and most Rip Its are like
this. There are only 2 sugar-free varieties, sugar-free Power and sugar-free
Citrus X. Personally, because of this large quantity of simple sugar I steer
away from these except for celebrations like weddings and birthdays. Rip It is
for the special occassions in life. Sometimes I will have one immediately before
a workout because it's a nice treat for me, and has the caffeine + simple sugar
to push me a bit further.
