[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Rip It Zero Sugar Tribute Active Mandarin Live Wild Lime"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Zero sugar Rip Its are great. They are all sweetened with sucralose, a God-tier
artificial sweetener and one which I have 200g of, enough for 10 lifetimes. They
are generally inoffensive as well. The full-sugar Rip Its, however, can be very
good like [[Rip_It_Stinger-Mo]] or very bad like [[Rip_It_Dragon_Fire]]. In
every incarnation they are very sugary. Zero sugar is light and does not leave
my mouth sticky with high-fructose corn syrup residue. That's a great plus.

Zero sugar is hard to find though.

I love to recite the name, Tribute Active Mandarin Live Wild Lime, like a prayer
or a title. This Rip It was acquired from Dollar Tree, and while
[[Rip_It_Sugarfree_Power]] was my first Rip It of 2026, this Rip It Tribute
Active Mandarin Live Wild Lime was my second.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidhvih2j2fb3sksqtesytxcmatohbi3pq7kbrr26uvzibjergsvr4" size=medium]]
</figure>

Its taste is light and lemon-lime citrus-y: think of an artificially sweetened
Sprite. Inoffensive on all fronts. I don't drink Sprite more often than
incidentally but I think that's what the taste is. Easy to drink quickly but
with a difficult-to-find Rip It like this I'd rather savor the experience.

In taste it is extremely similar to its sugary counterpart
[[Rip_It_Tribute_Active_Mandarin_Live_Wild_Lime]], which is a rarity for Rip It:
more often than not the zero sugar ones taste nothing like the full sugar
version.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 5cal |
| Caffeine | 160mg |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3mbuafvxuc22g"]]
