[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Rip It Tribute Active Mandarin Live Wild Lime"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Tribute Active Mandarin Live Wild Lime is one of the more widely available Rip
Its, at least at the stores near me. I know all 3 places I can get Rip Its
within a 3 mile radius of me (an [[Exxon]], Citgo and the Dollar Tree) and 2 of
those locations routinely have this flavor.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreih2fbflil232e75uos7eu7kebuxil3pmnlianjvisgis7nujqha64" size=medium]]
</figure>

On the nose, Tribute Active Mandarin Live Wild Lime (what a mouthful) has a
dull, subdued smell of limes. It is one of the easier Rip Its to drink as its
taste is inoffensive and soft. Unlike [[Rip_It_Dragon_Fire]] or
[[Rip_It_Stinger-Mo]] the taste doesn't so much slap you in the face as it does
transmit the gentle flavor of citrus and limes. The feeling on my mouth is not as
sticky as I've noticed with some like [[Rip_It_F-Bomb]], but still the
stickiness is present as with about every other Rip-It. While F-Bomb is the most
immediately fruit-adjacent Rip-It, I was surprised to find this one is made with
a small part grapefruit juice from concentrate in it. Not sure if F-Bomb has
fruit in it but I assume it does.

The zero sugar variant of this one,
[[Rip_It_Zero_Sugar_Tribute_Active_Mandarin_Live_Wild_Lime]] is exceptional in
that it does taste similar to the full sugar version. Most other zero sugar ones
like [[Rip_It_Sugarfree_Power]] do not taste like their full sugar counterparts
nor do they pretend to try.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 16 floz |
| Calories | 200cal |
| Caffeine | 160mg |
