[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — Rip It Tribute C.Y.P.-X"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

I've written about Rip It here before, and much like the name [[Citrus
X|Rip_It_Citrus_X]], the name of this Tribute C.Y.P.-X betrays nothing of the
taste. Take this quote from their website.

> Cover Your Palate? Complete Yearly Provisions? Competitive Yodeling Practice?
> You don’t need to know what C.Y.P.-X stands for to enjoy the boost of
> orange-creme flavor.

Without knowing how the taste would be I bought one on a quest to try every
flavor I found at my local Exxon. Rip It is most widely available at Dollar
Tree stores but their [[energy
finder|https://www.ripitenergy.com/energy-finder/]] makes merchants carrying the
drink easily searchable. Interestingly the Exxon I found these at is not in this
finder tool.

The taste of C.Y.P.-X is like cream soda, especially the IBC ones, and tastes
just as sugary. With 52g of high fructose corn syrup this drink supplies 104% of
the FDA recommended intake of added sugars in just one can. Packed with only
160mg of caffeine, this drink is on the lighter side of energy drinks these
days with respect to the energy content.

After the taste of cream soda settles the finish on C.Y.P.-X is like artificial
banana, redolent of the taste of banana Runts. This finish is subtle but stands
out once you notice it. It's my favorite flavor of Rip It that I have tried so
far. Unfortunately I do not enjoy it often because of its dizzyingly high sugar
count and there is no sugar-free version.
