[[!tag Cryptography Digital_Money]]

A rollup is a blockchain built on top of another blockchain. They increase
transaction throughput by moving state and logic off-chain, from the host chain,
often called the Layer 1 (L1), to the rollup, or Layer 2 (L2). The first rollups
were built on Ethereum, and the Ethereum roadmap has focused on rollups since
their introduction because they are the easiest, most achievable way to scale
Ethereum immediately. Ethereum long had serious problems with congestion during
market events when the gas price [^1] would skyrocket as a result of demand for
limited blockspace. I remember routinely seeing $100+ fees to swap on Ethereum
mainnet. That doesn't happen much anymore, if ever.

Rollups are blockchains themselves: they have their own state and history
distinct from the L1 on which they are built. There are at least two types of
rollups, **optimistic** and **zero knowledge (ZK)**. In both rollup types,
transactions submitted to the L2 are ordered into blocks by an actor called the
**sequencer**. The sequencer posts a committment to the order to the L1 rollup
contract and makes the sequenced transactions available to rollup nodes via a
**data availabity** (DA) layer. DA can be provided by a sovereign chain like
[Celestia](https://celestia.org/), [EigenDA](https://www.eigenda.xyz/) which is
not a sovereign chain,
[protodanksharding](https://ethereum.org/en/roadmap/danksharding/) a/k/a EIP4844
as enabled by the Dencun upgrade, or just plain L1 calldata as was done
historically. Once made available to rollup nodes via a DA layer transaction
batches are executed by rollup execution nodes in the committed order. The
output of the result of executing these transactions is written to an L1 rollup
contract by a **proposer**.

In optimistic rollups, **verifiers** keep the proposer honest by executing the
set of sequenced transactions in parallel and verifying the output. If the
proposer has committed a state not corresponding to the state computed by other
verifiers, because the output is deterministic, verifiers can call out the
proposer's errant behavior by providing a **fraud proof**. The proposer is then
penalized, typically by slashing an economic bond provided by the proposer for
the privilige of being able to propose. Slashing here is similar to slashing of
validators in proof-of-stake (PoS) networks, and indeed these may be actors
arranged in a PoS or delegated PoS (dPoS) configuration who take turns being
the proposer.

In the case where the posted output root was correct, no fraud proof is
submitted and no action is needed by verifiers; the output is implicitly
accepted after the window to submit a fraud proof, called the **finalization
window**, has passed. After this window, typically 7 days, the block cannot be
reverted. You can read more about why the finalization window is 7 days
[here](https://kelvinfichter.com/pages/thoughts/challenge-periods/) (hint: it's
mostly arbitrary).

In ZK rollups, a finalization window is not needed because the root is not
accepted unless proof of correct execution, called a **validity proof**, is
provided. You can read more about validity proofs
[here](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/scaling/zk-rollups/#validity-proofs).
This is not a rabbit-hole I've gone down yet so I can't explain them myself.

In both rollup regimes there is a trusted party, the sequencer, which we must
trust to order transactions for execution. This party can censor transaction if
it wishes. But because the sequencer only sequences and does not execute, there
is a way to force-include a transaction by submitting directly to the L1
contract and have the transaction executed on the L2. In this way you are your
own sequencer, sequencing just one transaction, your own. You pay the cost of
posting to the L1 directly in this case.

Typically the rollup sequencer is run by the rollup developer so censorship is
not great optics, but recently there was a case where a sequencer was censoring
transactions on a new L2 based on the OP Stack called Soneium, developed by Sony
Group of all people:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-cards="hidden" data-dnt="true" align="center"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">since i&#39;ve seen a lot of bad takes regarding L2s and their censorship resistance, here&#39;s how i bypassed  <a href="https://twitter.com/soneium?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@soneium</a>&#39;s sequencer and bought a banned token with a forced tx through L1 🧵 <a href="https://t.co/4BzveajLkw">https://t.co/4BzveajLkw</a> <a href="https://t.co/5Mfop9I9M3">pic.twitter.com/5Mfop9I9M3</a></p>&mdash; donnoh.eth 💗 (@donnoh_eth) <a href="https://twitter.com/donnoh_eth/status/1879210463952818472?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 14, 2025</a></blockquote><script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

The usefulness of purchasing memecoins on a rollup where the developer is
actively censoring you is questionable.

[^1]: The price to execute transactions on the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)
