[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Ryse Fuel Ring Pop"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Another energy drink from a supplements company. The pipeline between these two
worlds is real and Ryse backs this up. The company released its first entry in
the Ryse Fuel in 2022 after being primarily a preworkout and supplements
company. Maybe it is because I received them at the same time but this pipeline
reminds me of [[Gorilla_Mind_Arctic_White]], also a supplements company selling
an energy drink. Ryse is the company behind the Pump Daddy V2 and Stim Daddy
preworkouts I see on GNC's website sometmes. What a funny name for preworkout.

This drink is licensed with the trademark Ring Pop. Most of their other drinks
also use licensed names from candies like Sour Punch Straws and Smarties.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiheno2sgtlf7soig4righdgnkwsikkg25kdbnmg2c6b5ax42id25e" size=medium]]
</figure>

The taste is super sour, it's a combination of strong carbonation and a lot of
citric acid. That's actually the second ingredient on the list after carbonated
water. Ring Pops were not sour so I'm not sure why there should be so much.
There is a vague artificial grape finish which is definitely not anywhere else
in the flavor profile because the other taste is acid. You could convincingly
call that grape a Ring Pop flavor, but the rest of it I'm not sure on.

It's fine. Not particularly interesting but also not so bad I wouldn't drink it.
Just fine. If we're going heavy on the citric acid I'd rather it taste like
[[Ghost_Energy_x_Warheads_Sour_Watermelon]] than to have a weak, dark,
artificial grape flavor hiding in the can.
