[[!meta title="Jōchi Daigaku"]]

[[!tag School Japan Diary]]

Sophia University (known in Japanese as 上智大学 "Jōchi Daigaku") is a
university in the Chiyoda ward of Tōkyō, Japan. I studied here in the Spring and
Summer of 2018 as part of a study-abroad program with
[[North_Carolina_State_University]], returning eventually that Fall to continue
my engineering studies at my home university.

You can see many of the pictures I took during my stay in Tōkyō
[here](https://public-demo.hooya.wesl.ee/?query=gallery%3Atokyo+18) via an
instance of my own [[HooYa]] network.

Although my purpose overseas was ostensibly to study, the courses I took while
abroad gave zero credit towards the completion of my electrical engineering or
computer engineering degrees. After convincing my advisors that this was
actually my plan and not some mistake or oversight, I signed up to take the
following classes at Sophia University:

Course Name                        | Course Number
-----------------------------------|--------------
Intermediate Japanese 2            | JPN112
Human Resource Management in Japan | IBE445
Survey of Japanese Literature 1    | LIT231
Introduction to Art History        | ART250

Though it looked great on paper, in reality the actual courses I took were only
settled when I finally arrived at the school and had a small orientation with
other exchange students. There is not perfect communication between universities
on the other side of the world. Exactly what was in the course catalog was not
known until we actually landed.

The [[Japanese]] course I enrolled in at Jōdai was the first formal Japanese
course I ever took; before this, I only ever studied on my own.

My self-study began my first year of college. At that time I had already decided
to study abroad in Japan to enrich my language study, to improve my speaking,
reading, and writing skills in an immersive and enriching context. I'm not sure
why, I guess I was driven. I look back on deciding to study abroad as one of the
most important decisions of my life. Despite delaying my graduation by a
semester it afforded me the experience I would never trade for anything else.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreic4hknafhj233zvyfdufhuuhznap47ycdmjeusxxp74ftcfngj3im" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Sophia University during circle + club open-house</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreib3gskzkt26n6k7wyke32tqkmflxpoiiju3oxfmq3a7bjsn6oitim" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Behind Sophia University overlooking the Shuto expressway's [Shinjuku Route
(4)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Route_4_(Shuto_Expressway))</figcaption>
</figure>

I knew almost no-one from my university who would be abroad that year at Sophia
with me. Eventually, overseas, I met three others from N.C. State also studying
alongside me there. Two were there only for the semester like myself and one
more had already been there for a year. We all lived in different wards and in
vastly different living arrangements, some living with a host family and some
just in student dorms. I rented an apartment for internationals (mostly
students) in Taitō ward, but when I initially landed I stayed at a very large
hotel in Chiyoda for a few nights.

Though I was scheduled to begin school in mid-April, I smartly set aside two
weeks for settling in and exploring the city. When I touched down in late-March
the sakura trees were in full bloom. The sky was a canvas of pink and light blue
for almost all hours of the day. These two weeks where I soaked in the beauty
and strangeness afforded by my almost-whimsical decision to live and study in
such a far-away place are some of the most special days of my life so far, and I
have trouble putting in to words how moved I was by simply existing in that
space and time. I interacted with very few people, as I knew absolutely no-one
who decided to fly out early and my Japanese was not great, so those days were
very quiet, peaceful, relaxing and extremely meditative days which chased the
previous weeks which had bustled and rumbled and brimmed with anxienty but had
now passed and were now so far removed.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiam6al6j5jfhicmv2nubhcurkaypszhtlnzucbkfadyljjuaaoroy" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreieeikjwbkbgmzqlablxe3yax5gy6kyvikn664g4dd67vsz5zdcs4q" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Chidorigafuchi Park during a cherry blossom festival</figcaption>
</figure>

A month or so before leaving the US, I worked in a small office in the fittingly
small town of Asheboro, North Carolina doing power substation contracting work
as an electrical engineer; to be suddenly spirited away into this strange and
comforting bliss was more than I could handle some days, and many times I cried
watching the flow of the Sumida-gawa river on a lazy afternoon or staring at the
flowers of a cherry blossom viewing or simply drinking hot [[Coffee]] from a
scalding steel can.

I bought the same coffee from the vending machine in Akihabara for a week until
it ran out, then I went to the one across the street.
[[BOSS|Suntory_Boss_Coffee_Black]], the boss of them all.

After these beautiful days living in the hotel I relocated in early-April to the
apartment where I would spend the rest of the semester. I lived with a
smattering of internationals, mostly graduate students studying at Tōkyō
University or other nearby schools. The apartment-mates I saw and talked with
were so nice and they all left Japan around the same time I came back to the
states. They were helpful in navigating the paperwork surrounding national
healthcare and residency. I still went to the office alone and handled it with
my budding Japanese, for the sake of my own pride.

When compared to the irregularity of every day I spent sorting through residency
forms and navigating the Tōkyō subway system, the rigidity afforded by a
consistent class schedule was a light relief. When my classes settled down and
I'd settled into my routine of homework, home-cooking and sight-seeing I really
felt like I was an irremovable and definite piece of the city.

Practicing Japanese
-------------------

Each morning at 11AM I had a [[Japanese]] lesson. The course-content each day
was structured upon the key-points noted the day before, and the homework passed
forward each morning also reinforced these points and prepared us for the
grammar and vocabulary we'd cover that day. I studied very hard each night and
did very well in this class, completing many of the optional exercises in the
textbooks we used.

Often I would use the new grammar structures we learned in the classroom while
chatting up shop-owners in the little touristy shops near my apartment or with
the friends I made at the university. When I went out by myself it was always a
principle to never speak English unless someone spoke it to me first, so many
times I surprised the people around me who were used to an American making
demands in very, very slow English (as if slowing down helps someone understand
better). Living in a tourist area (near Sensō-ji) I often heard many different
languages being spoken around me. In particular it was extremely jarring to hear
English spoken on the street, often coming from a group walking the other
direction, past me, resulting in some weird Anglo-doppler effect especially after
long periods of primarily Japanese input. Even more jarring when the language
came at my ears with such a familiar accent.

It's Raining Again
------------------

One thing to note is that in the early Summer it rains nearly every day. It's
absolutely miserable and getting anywhere via public transit is a pain.
Sometimes even the trains stop moving along certain lines because there is so
much rain falling onto the tracks. On days like this we were still expected to
make our way to class before the bell so often I needed to budget extra minutes
just to accomodate the late trains. And every morning that it rained, late-train
or not, it was downright miserable to be packed very tightly together with
people who are soaking wet.

Many times, if it looked to be raining all day and in to the evening, I would
laze around on campus until my very late HRM course, whip out my laptop and
write a little in my diary. I wrote quite a bit those days because there was
naturally a ton to write about. I would watch people come and go from their 3rd
and 4th period classes, maybe grab something to keep me awake from the 7-11
downstairs, and lay quietly on the large steps and click-clack my thoughts into
my diary. Some days the sun slanted through the gap between this floor and the
next ([giving a fantastic view over all the
campus](https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreic4hknafhj233zvyfdufhuuhznap47ycdmjeusxxp74ftcfngj3im))
and I would retreat inside to some bench or corner. The library was also a
pleasant place to work, write and study, though I mostly worked outside on
benches or at tables.

[[Arcades]]
-----------

While at university I joined a rhythm-game circle. We met ~once per month so
only something like 4 times while I was there. Circles are informal compared to
clubs so that casual atmosphere is expected. I mostly followed these
ryhythm-game otaku around, and being the only foreign student in the club felt a
little weird. Despite being an international university these guys + girls
spoke very little English; but despite being in Japan I spoke terrible Japanese
so it was mutual. The only thing we both were good at was DDR, Dancerush Stardom
and IIDX.

The games I played most (in order) were:

+ Wangan Maximum Tune 5DX+
+ Beatmania IIDX 25 Cannon Ballers
+ Dance Dance Revolution A
+ Sound Voltex IV Heavenly Haven
+ Initial D Zero
+ Kidō Senshi Gundam: Senjō no Kizuna

Even outside of the rhythm game circle I'd often visit an arcade to fill out my
down-time. Since the tutorials and dialogue were naturally in Japanese I also
excused this time as "situational" Japanese practice :smile:

In some arcades the games I wanted to play were on the floors *above* the
[[!wikipedia Pachinko]] floors. Smoking was still permitted indoors on these
floors so the whole floor smelled rancid. Fighting game cabinets, idolm@ster
cabinets, and retro cabinets were also popular places to smoke in addition to
next to the pachinko machines.

Some of the arcades I'd go to:

+ Hey! (Akihabara)
+ Tōkyō Leisure Land (Akihabara)
+ Taito Station (anywhere and everywhere)
+ Sega Arcades (Akihabara, RIP)

Being within walking distance of an arcade at any given time spoiled me.

Akihabara
---------

Akihabara was naturally a place I gravitated towards. No matter where I was in
Tōkyō I generally knew how to get to Akihabara and from there I knew how to get
home so it was a natural touchpoint. And despite being a very roundabout way to
get home I'd typically go to Akiba after school (even before school sometimes)
just to relax and enjoy the atmosphere.

I clearly remember going to a bookstore in Akiba the morning before my Japanese
oral exam to scout for a volume of Yuyushiki I could not find the day before.
For the oral exam I just talked about looking for that volume. Language can be
so easy if you stop thinking so hard about it.

Hirose Entertainment Yard (HEY!) arcade was a spot I frequented. They had a
massive selection of classic cabinets, shoot-em-ups, and even made some room for
a few new games like Initial D Zero and Wangan. Often when I'd go someone was
playing an obscure game for a NicoNico stream just up the escalator.

In the basement of HEY! there was a MelonBooks storefront where I routinely
spent too much money on dōjin-shi, manga, and monthly magazines like Manga Time
Kirara.

Harajuku
--------

Harajuku is a cozy place. I went to the PARK in Harajuku and many cute tea shops
and clothing stores. The atmosphere contrasts sharply with that of Akihabara but
I love wandering down the streets in Harajuku and peering through what clothes
are for sale. Whatever I bought I packed into my backpack and hauled back to my
apartment in Taitō ward.

Food
----

I'd wander up + down streets during the day, curious what kind of food I could
find. The first place I ate (aside from a convenience store) was a
[[Yoshinoya]]. Obviously the first thing I ordered was the omori negidaku with
egg (I *was* marked up for the egg).

Quickly I discovered the mass of [[Rāmen|Ramen]] shops the city
had to offer. I'm not sure what first urged me to enter the dimly-lit world of
rāmen shops but the culture surrounding it quickly became familiar and personal.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiat4ay6hqmoogng5thpoc2uqiapgej5y7g6txvhpnv6pucbrzju5y" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Tonkotsu Rāmen from 麺屋 江武里</figcaption>
</figure>

Tonkatsu also became a staple for me. I'd hunt up and down the street for a
sign or menu with the fabled four characters と・ん・か・つ and no matter how
ratty the outside looked I would walk in

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifo6bihaiceegutipgoaipl43xysiwwz7ljwaklweuw4b3mpynpvy" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Tonkatsu from Danki Tonkatsu, a shop in Asakusa in those weird side-streets near Sensō-ji</figcaption>
</figure>

When I [[visited Tōkyō again in 2023|Tokyo_23]] my husband
[got](https://public-demo.hooya.wesl.ee/cid/bafkreibpttiuh7e7fwezmlxhjuiiivqxcuvfthhnubpndtslmkgnihoioa)
the same tonkatsu set meal at the same place I had the tokatsu set meal in 2018.
This was 5 years apart. I closed my eyes. It only felt like 5 minutes.

Virtual Self (Akasaka BLITZ)
----------------------------

I chanced to see Virtual Self when Porter Robinson [performed his set at Akasaka
BLITZ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3TUTJFFL_rY). This was my first time
seeing a Porter set IRL even though I had been a fan for a long time before
this.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibo3kdzjf26wddqfpkdub2mpj4nreyaucxmd3puw6zc5krsjckhca" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Virtual Self at Akasaka BLITZ in Tōkyō</figcaption>
</figure>

It was probably the most English I'd heard around me for months. It was fun
regardless. The music and vibe of the set made me want to play DDR (especially
DE-SIRE - SP-TRIP MACHINE ～Jungle Mix～) so the next day I went to Tōkyō
Leisure Land in Akihabara and played every mix of PARANOiA I had unlocked.
