[[!tag Diary]]

I've had trouble growing my lawn since we moved in to our home. There are many
bare spots in the backyard that are very sandy, and some other spots where water
tends to pool because of poor drainage. The ground is very hard here and
requires some willpower to dig in to.

In the bare spots I resolved in [[2024]] to dig a few garden beds so there would
be something pleasant to look at instead of the dry, bare ground. Raised beds
were an option here but doing an in-ground garden seemed it would be more
fulfilling to grow in, and felt more connected to the farming tradition of my
county. Plus if I could grow anything in this ground that was a sign I could
grow in very poor conditions with a chance of success. Finally, I knew nothing
about plants or gardening; this was a chance to fix that with hands-on learning.

With just a shovel I dug out 2 rows of 3 garden beds, each 4'x8' and about 8
inches deep. The process involved a cumulative ~5 hours of digging and hoeing,
spread over two days because I work outside in the late afternoon after the sun
slips behind the house. It was miserably hot still, even at that time of day,
but it was weirdly fun. I enjoyed working and sweating outside as much as I
enjoyed coming inside to the cool A/C. Male privilege is being able to work
outside without a shirt on and I used it to the fullest those two days,
ostensibly because I had just had my nipples [[pierced|Piercings]] and wanted to
avoid extra friction / sweat but also because I wanted to / could. Anyhow, I
amended the soil I removed with 1 bag per bed of off-the-shelf topsoil and
deposited it back into the bed. In retrospective the beds could have been 1'
narrower as I can barely reach the middle without stepping into the bed.

The idea with digging all the dirt out just to dump it back in was threefold:

1. Better define the bed
2. Aerate the soil
3. Amend the soil

I went back over all the beds with a hoe, watered the ground some with a
watering can and called it done. Some people would use a tiller here.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreib27kdltmqdfxjfybk7b6w75dar2rzeqtvmmndnvrjabrix7kozvy" size=medium]]
</figure>

The next day into 3 of the beds I planted seeds for spinach, kale and radishes;
the day after this I planted seeds for turnips, basil and cucumbers. These were
all in-season for late April here. I referenced a [handbook provided by NC
State](https://content.ces.ncsu.edu/extension-gardener-handbook/16-vegetable-gardening)
to learn about vegetable gardening in North Carolina and to find these
vegetables. Over the next week I diligently watered each bed with about a gallon
of water each once per day using runoff collected in a rain barrel attached to
the house. This was very tedious and soon I ran a bar sprinkler out there
attached to a very long hose.

After two weeks, half my beds had germinated: the first leaves of the cucumbers,
turnips and radishes poked out of the ground but the remaining crops didn't even
try. This was interesting and slightly vexing, but thinking more on it I
realized a 50% success rate at growing vegetables from seed in this sub-par soil
was a great start. I let the empty beds get overrun with weeds and focused on
the beds that were growing vegetables.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiakaumrbhkaabapayrbuuwkxliotl4fo56ezo6ygvxzld5x6752ya" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Radishes (bottom) and turnips (top) growing in my yard</figcaption>
</figure>

On June 6 I harvested the radishes. They are surprisingly quick to reach
maturation, 21 to 28 days, and I likely could have harvested them a few days
earlier than I did. To harvest, grab them at the base of their greens and pop
them out of the ground. The top of the root of some of the larger ones may be
visible as they mature in the ground, as below.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigwpsoytsy7sxv5zqdat26ymhqk5zz5hzpv75rqwkgihvqsjnws34" size=medium]]
</figure>

The radishes were quite small, some barely had any edible root at all. I blame
this on the heat, as when it gets hot some vegetables tend to “bolt”, or
prematurely flower. They also tasted quite spicy, another symptom of heat
stress. Finally, I neglected to thin them out, resulting in some seeds merging
together into one radish which is not optimal but in this case those radishes
turned out fine.

<figure class="image-square">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibi4zi6uqwk2kujkwccbcysajrlriaxxpcvjy5xr6ipopbme2mxxm" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiedy3dyeya4lp3a3dveqb7asjwl2j3utq42dtyow3kbm3vkeq4nym" size=medium]]
</figure>

I ate the radishes with salt, pepper and olive oil over a few days. They were
not substantial but wow, they grew so fast. If I planted some every week for
just three weeks in a row I could have a harvest every week for the three weeks
after that.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreieas5ccwtyrs3pz3dgqdwbmp2t356hvyrr3cpudnaeht4fnj6y6qe" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Radishes sliced on a plate with salt and pepper</figcaption>
</figure>

---

About three weeks after I harvested the radishes I pulled the turnips out of the
ground in the same way. Turnips are cooked more similarly to potatoes than to
radishes, which I didn't know before I researched this as I had never bought or
cooked with a turnip. The greens are also edible, as with radishes. I cubed and
tossed the radishes in salt, [[Olive_Oil]] and rosemary from a huge bush
outside. I layered in rosemary sprigs also tossed in the same oil and salt in
hopes they would be tasty but they did not take kindly to being cooked at 375°F
for as long as the turnips needed.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihonuzyhw7bbfsibnv5ru7t45bu6xnklz4p2vbxso3abh7tfz7cv4" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Turnips and rosemary (bottom) and greens (top)</figcaption>
</figure>

For the turnip greens, I sautéd them as I would mustard greens with oil, red
pepper flakes and a fuckload of garlic, adding crumbled bacon over top at the
end. It took a lot of time to actually prep all these vegetables, probably
longer than they were cooking on the stove and in the oven.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreie65dbe4ta5xrqrywxaggmi2zuh2f342b7ystmhjsqinxudcuol5i" size=medium]]
</figure>

Overall this was a more substantial meal than the radishes were; it was
fulfilling to eat a dinner made mostly from things I grew. There was very little
waste this time too as I cooked both edible parts and all the turnips were
healthy.

<figure class="image-square">
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifknllex7xppwilumnqmucao4l4jczjcbq6qnttm3xqae4da7hteu" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifwvfqi72uytnn4ulalhatcanmi266blpq7byzgrs27i5p67pn354" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Turnips, greens and [[Mogul]]</figcaption>
</figure>
