[[!meta title="Canned Coffee — Suntory Boss Coffee Black"]]
[[!tag Canned_Coffee Review]]

I had my first taste of BOSS coffee when I studied [[abroad in Tōkyō in
2018|Sophia_University]]. I never heard of it before then but I already loved
[[Coffee]] so I was naturally drawn to the street-corner vending machines all
over Tōkyō, some of which still served hot coffee even in late March when I
arrived. A few weeks later they had all switched over to chilled canned coffee.

The cans from these vending machines, this BOSS coffee included, are made of
steel; they can be heated without deforming as an alumium can would so these
vending machines are able to offer hot (あったか～い) and chilled (つめた～い)
drinks.

My diary says that the BOSS I had when I first got to Japan was a special 25th
anniversary "Pride of Boss" coffee when I walked from my hotel to Akihabara
through a number of cherry blossom festivals, and that I had the Rainbow Blend
BOSS when I walked back the same way. I could have taken the metro but I the
walk that day was absolutely worth.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibyljx3sorwqa4b36qnze46u5f4gmzto4mrxryh5mxfft27hponfm" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Chidorigafuchi Moat during the Chiyoda City Sakura Festival</figcaption>
</figure>

Anyhow that was my first time having BOSS. The one I have in my hands right now
is BOSS Black from Japan (there is a [US domestic
version](https://www.bosscoffeeusa.com/) now), it is basically just black
coffee brewed with Suntory's flash brewing process. I bought this from an import
store here and I drank it chilled instead of hot. 

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreib5ljqold3afhza5g4b265g2olkwdiz6mi6rhoec7xuwdif7x2o4e" size=medium]]
</figure>

The taste is rich and wet. It is as daunting to approach describing Black as it
is to approach describing a very dark chocolate; BOSS Black has the same profile
you find in chocolate with a cocoa content of > 80%; bitter, fruity, somewhat
salty. It is a beautiful, industrial drink. The size of it means you can put it
in your pocket 

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Volume | 6.5floz |
| Calories | 0cal |
| Caffeine | 74mg |
| Potassium | 111mg |
