[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Suntory Craft Boss Sunny Coffee (Lemon)"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

I picked this drink up at HMart along with [[Nongshim_Shin_Spicy_Cup_Noodles]]
and [[Ottogi_Yeul_Ramen]], among other things. I was
[hoping](https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lde6w5hbdc22) to find BOSS
coffee in the can but no such luck existed that day. In any case this was
something I hadn't seen before so I figured it could be interesting to try.

Craft Boss Sunny Coffee Lemon (クラフトボス・サニーコーヒー・レモン) is a drink
from Suntory made with [[coffee]] and at least 9% lemon and apple juice. It
comes in a plastic bottle and is _refreshingly sweet_ (すっきり甘い). We'll see
about that.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidq6guc3llyy3t7k7koeor7mowhzzzltc4ekvvpitwhmagv5juqtq" size=medium]]
</figure>

First sip: what the fuck. The sour taste of lemon juice slaps me in the face. I
can't discern much beyond the sourness. It actually has citric acid listed as an
ingredient beyond lemon juice and apple juice. It's like they are
acid-adjusting a glass of lemonade cut with apple juice. Incredible.

Overwhelmingly its taste is redolent to me of Brisk iced tea with further bitter
notes stemming from the addition of coffee.

Through the lemon overtones I can still taste the distinctive BOSS coffee hiding
in this drink. The actual caffeine content is a mystery and I'm not sensitive
enough to caffeine right now to guess it either.

<table class="no-border">
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-limits-caffeine.tmpl" limit="500"]]</td></tr>
</table>

I can't imagine this would be refreshing on a hot day as it's so sour and has a
fair amount of sugar (54g) for one 500ml bottle, 220cal.
