[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Tapatio Bowl Spicy Carne Asada with Lime"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

I'm once again in a hotel gift shop well after every other restaurant has closed
and I'm a bit hungry. Oh, there's cup noodle with the familiar Mexican guy from
[[Tapatio_Bowl_Chili_Lime_Shrimp]]! Those noodles were fine. These could be
better.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifzag62ti6lllfrmfsrxpal4n3pbah5khccmmxivtjlfx73t5oa5q" size=medium]]
</figure>

Salty. Spicy. Very very spicy. Hot hot spicy. If there's one thing a hot sauce
company can do well it seems that one thing is spice.

I have a high tolerance and deep love for spices but the spice on these noodles
was somewhat painful for me. Not that I mind being in pain for spice. One time
at a bar two weeks ago in Roanoke, VA watching game 3 of the Oilers / Dolphins
Stanley Cup I had a burger with jalapeños, habaneros and some hellish house-made
hot sauce that literally made me tear up; I was in pure bliss.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreig6ypoz3x4scy2hkht2247tohr5swkrygcnci6ql2ld25zq6xjsiu" size=medium]]
</figure>

The spice on these noodles, however, is annoying at the least with the degree it
lingers around. With a good hot sauce or pepper there is at least some reward for
enduring the spice, the flavor and texture of the pepper or hot sauce. Here,
there is no reward. No higher ideal. Just spicy as fuck broth. The spice lingers
long on my lips. The "lime" part of this is overwhelmingly sour. Must be citric
or malic acid, it tastes mad artificial.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Calories | 480cal |
| Fat | 17g |
| Carbohydrates | 71g |
| Sodium | 2650mg |
| Protein | 10g |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lrru2tbs6k2z"]]
