[[!meta title="Instant Noodles Review — Tapatío Original (Cup)"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

I don't see these especially often but I've tried them once or twice in my life
before now. Once was at a hotel. I bought them at the front desk because
everything nearby was closed and this was the most substantial meal they had. I
cooked it in the cup with boiling water from the coffee machine. Take a look at
the nice man on the cup livery.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifbjnjuvt7zdobybfz3v7ilmjf44lznsiniq37qrpawgxr7navtry" size=medium]]
</figure>

The last few cup noodles I had were
[[Maruchan|Maruchan_Cup_Chili_Piquin_and_Shrimp]] so the heat from the thin
paper cup immediately reminded me how much work that styrofoam puts in.

First impression: wow, they're quite bland. Every noodle I've had was branded
with some kind of flavor: beef, chicken, tonkotsu, tantanmen, etc. But this
one's not. It's just "Original". I scoured the entire suface of the cup and it
says nothing about what it's flavored like, other than it is "artificially
flavored and other natural flavors". Cool. It's not even particularly spicy;
maye just a little bit more than the average cup noodle. I'm sure these would be
amazing if you put chili oil, peppers and beef in it. But I'm here to find the
best, most savory meal in a cup, not to make my own.

It has veggies in it too. Green onion (both the root and leaf parts
interestingly) and diced carrot from what I've been able to surface. They don't
add much. Actually, they don't add anything at all.

The broth is tangy and zesty, which is not normal at all for cup noodles. It's
actually upsetting. I'm not sure what it's meant to emulate, maybe lime juice?
A very sharp flavor. The rest of it is redolent of tomato soup through and
through. Nothing interesting beyond that.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Serving | Paper cup (65g) |
| Calories | 280cal |
| Fat | 12g |
| Carbohydrates | 37g |
| Sodium | 1230mg |
| Protein | 6g |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lj53snhab22k"]]
