[[!meta title="Instant Noodles — Tapatío Chili Lime Shrimp (Bowl)"]]
[[!tag Instant_Noodles Review]]

Tapatío is a hot sauce. Evidently they also make cup noodles? Since 2018 it
seems. It's easy to spot Tapatío on the shelf from a long way away because of
the smiling man in the sombrero on the front of the cup or bowl.

My impression on seeing the bowl is that there must be a lot of noodles in it
because it is so big. In reality it's a normal amount of noodles, similar in
quantity to [[Maruchan_Fire_Bowl_Spicy_Beef_Ramen]] despite being in a 30%
larger container; the rest of the bowl is just empty space. Fooled me! Still,
there are a good amount of noodles here (490cal worth) just not as many as I was
led to believe by the size of this thing.

On opening the clear plastic wrapping the bowl I see that the lid is made of
some weird embossed plastic. It's a nice texture. I run my finger over it a few
times. I've never seen a cup noodle with this kind of lid. If it were on more
luxurious noodles it would elevate the experience of the whole cup. Here,
because it's Tapatío, it feels out of place.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihg5tpsakmhyfqde5xopv6uifwwmotlew5djr62mjo3zeqme33h2e" size=medium]]
</figure>

The taste is overwhelmingly salty and tastes like the powdered lime flavor they
put in _Tajin_. Much lime taste. Plenty to go around. On the aftertaste there is
an echo of shrimp, which is good because normally the shrimp taste in cup
noodles is quite bad. This one's fine. Carrots and green onion don't add much
but texture.

The broth is like zesty, tangy tomato soup with seasoning that tastes closer to
oranges than to limes. Again, like with [[the other Tapatío I've
had|Tapatio_Cup_Original]], I'll remark that zesty broth makes me upset. It's
not normal. Very unexpected. And not good.

Otherwise, the broth is sorta spicy, as the pepper on the lid warned me.

| | Amount |
| ---- | ------ |
| Serving | 1 bowl (110g) |
| Calories | 490cal |
| Fat | 18g |
| Carbohydrates | 70g |
| Sodium | 2330mg |
| Protein | 10g |

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3llkznqvves2b"]]
