[[!meta title="The Cheapest and Quickest Way To Get Into FPV"]]

Flying FPV drones is everything I love about racing Zero-G craft in games like
WipEout and F-Zero GX except you can do it in real life. That's awesome! Plus it
comes with the technical complexity of needing to maintain, fix and potentially
upgrade the drone which is also an aspect of flying I love.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiggmckc755e4bcjaxcufi7iucdahsrsezloawzgxwhllqaohr34bq" size=medium]]
</figure>

There are a few
different types of FPV drones:

- Freestyle drones
- Racing drones
- Cinematic drones

Freestyle and racing types are similar, and in both cases these drones are meant
to fly fast and maybe crash some. Cinematic drones are generally not designed
with high-speed crashing in mind and will often be heavier than freestyle or
racing drones.

While there _are_ cheap cinematic drones out there, they're not a great way to
evaluate if the FPV hobby is for you because they need a camera. What I'm
highlighting today is the cheapest way to get into an FPV.

Bind + Fly Kits
---------------

A few companies sell all-in-one kits for FPV. The premise is that, you buy
this bundle, then you can immediately go out to the field and fly. Such kits
include all necessary components, like:

- Quadcopter
- Batteries
- Controller
- FPV Headset

This is how I made my way into the hobby 6 months ago and it's how I'd recommend
you do it too. You can take any of these components along with you as you
upgrade, lessening the burden of the things you need to buy if you do upgrade
beyond the all-in-one. But if you decide you don't like the hobby after all,
you're not out a lot of money. Especially if you resell!

Recommendation
--------------

What I started with and what I recommend to start with is the [**BetaFPV Cetus X
FPV Kit**](https://betafpv.com/products/cetus-x-fpv-kit).

<strong>BetaFPV Cetus X FPV Kit</strong>

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigwbz44rg5p3oohsfobbkey3dvobn6wifvo6ij3u7b47fvvzrrr6m" size=medium]]
</figure>

It's the perfect, cheapest, best all-in-one, hands-down. The video is analog and
contributes to an interesting look. The headset has a DVR for easy recording
with a micro SD. Right now it's $240 US.

The kit comes with 4 batteries, each flight takes 2. You can buy some extra 1S
batteries for not that much more from BetaFPV. 4 extra batteries is
well-worth the extra $14.74 if you even think you might plan to take the quad
out often. In my experience, with hard flying, a set of 2x 450mAH batteries
yields 3 minutes of flight time. If you want to go somewhere interesting and
stay for longer, pack a USB powerbank and you can stay as long as you'd like by
charging the other batteries while you fly.

Pick up some spare propellers too (cheap) because you _will_ lose some, break
some or chip some, compromising their airfoil profile. Additionally I've
personally lost a rotor because it was coupled too tightly to the prop and when
the prop flew off the rotor did too, meaning I needed to buy a new set of motors
too. You can handle these things as they come up so I wouldn't buy a new set of
motors right away. Anyway, for the kit, there's 2 choices: Betaflight FC vs
Cetus FC.

_Get the Betaflight FC version_

<span style="color:orange"><em>Get the Betaflight FC version</em></span>

Betaflight is standard firmware for most flight controllers. The Cetus FC
version from BetaFPV has a barometer-assisted altitude hold and though the
Betaflight FC version lacks this the Betaflight FC will set you free. Its PID
controller is infinitely tunable using [Betaflight
Configurator](https://www.betaflight.com/docs/wiki) and is universal even among
high-end prebuilts. For those building a custom drone Betaflight is the assumed
choice. Betaflight is open-source and widely used while Cetus is only used on
BetaFPV (no relation to Betaflight) quadcopters.

Now That You Have The Quadcopter...
-----------------------------------

... don't fly it. Flying is hard and crashing is expensive. Watch the first few
episodes of this [great tutorial
series from Joshua
Bardwell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SpuXqNakP2A&list=PLwoDb7WF6c8lCKhQOTy-Vb9LfW0VAIrTP)
and download a simulator like
[Liftoff](https://store.steampowered.com/app/410340/Liftoff_FPV_Drone_Racing/)
or
[Tryp](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1881200/TRYP_FPV_Drone_Racer_Simulator/)
to actually practice the lessons. You can use the controller that came with the
bundle to fly in the simulator, it should Just Work. Even now when I try new
tricks I practice them in the simulator until I'm comfortable enough with them
to not crash (hard) IRL. Bardwell's tutorial will get you comfortable with
flying FPV. When you take your own drone out to the field, you'll know how to
move in 3D space in full acro mode. It will take some practice, like any new
skill.

When You Are Ready To Fly IRL...
--------------------------------

... increase the quad's VTX output power to 400mW. From the factory it is set to
25mW. This greatly limits the quadcopter's range. Range falls off with
the square root of power, so this yields approximately a 4x increase in range
under similar conditions. Impact on flight time is minimal because most drain is
through motors, not VTX. VTX power can be adjusted either [in the
OSD](https://youtu.be/BQXlKk9IUIs?t=70) or in Betaflight Configurator by
connecting the FC via USB. With 400mW VTX I can comfortably go up to 400ft above
ground level (FAA limit) and quite far in general, even among obstacles.


<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicyiabu6mztvgzdzdexlglymbnpt5lydrho4cmoeu436v255nqeme" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreib57nvgljotflurph6n3334kkklae4npkp7c2zpjxdmkfjnt4p33m" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreialw7d5rstl2pfl7vkbsgchfp3yzlctm5mtshsnuv6mluchp73aqe" size=medium]]
</figure>

With this kit you can pick up any of BetaFPV's tinywhoops like the [Air65](https://betafpv.com/products/air65-brushless-whoop-quadcopter) or
[Air75](https://betafpv.com/products/air75-brushless-whoop-quadcopter) for not a
lot of money and they will just work with your existing controller and goggles.
Below is me flying the Air65, and the feed along with the artifacting is exactly
what I see. The video is much sharper when flying than YouTube makes it out to
be.

<figure>
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FIYcvyET9v0?si=53hRqJhRYVP9zXRi" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3mf27wlzvgk2d"]]
