Recently I've done a fairly comprehensive overview of software for working in
VR. My use-case is that I would like to perform my daily work at least partially
within a headset, taking advantage of the virtual space to access more monitors
than are at my desk, and to do so within a pleasant, relaxing environment. Maybe
even be able to stand up, walk around, and lounge in a virtual space when done
working, all from the comfort of my IRL room. I distilled this vision down to
the following non-negotiable qualifications for my setup.

- Lightweight HMD, to be able to use for hours without much fatigue
- Virtual environment that supports many different, customizable “worlds”
- Multi-monitor support

I will skip all of my evaluation phase and simply tell you what setup has
fulfilled these requirements for me. Presently (September 2024) I have worked in
this space for about a week

- HMD — Bigscreen Beyond
- OS — Windows (necessarily)
- Virtual Desktops — Desktop+
- World / Environment — VRChat or Steam Home

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicthgsbnk4d2zc5zuyqana7jepb2xyr43i33b4zbrqorqmz4aqktm" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Writing this article with the above setup</figcaption>
</figure>


HMD / Hardware
--------------

I became interested in the Bigscreen Beyond when looking for a replacement for
my Vive Pro 2. The Pro 2 weighs about 1.87 lbs (0.85 kg) and is quite heavy for
a headset. It's a fine headset but I noticed significant fatigue after playing
Skyrim VR within the first hour of playing the game. This is probably because
the journey to High Hrothgar is long and there is not much to distract you while
walking so my mind gradually disengaged with the world and I began to notice the
heavy weight on my head increasingly often. The head strap on the Pro 2 does a
lot to distribute this weight evenly over your head but still the HMD is quite
heavy. Additionally the HMD is aging. I'm reminded of this when I put on newer
headsets and am surprised by their clarity, especially the Quest 2 (still) and
the Quest 3.

In contrast, the Beyond weighs 127 grams and looks amazing. There is a narrow
sweet spot and blur around the edges which is something to get used to, but
after using this for a full week I do not notice these things anymore, I simply
move my head around more to look at things than I use my eyes to glance to my
peripheral. I think this glancing behavior is a holdover from my Pro 2 which
commanded much more inertia when moving my head. With the Beyond I barely notice
it on my face.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreichex6xzwfsys3u4dz5qqrarzkptt7oqwrtnazd77ifqlp7wjfe5e" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Me interfacing with the computer through the Beyond</figcaption>
</figure>

Committing to the Beyond means embracing the SteamVR ecosystem, which I was
luckily already in given that the Vive Pro 2 uses Valve's base stations. I also
already used controllers the from the Index too because HTC's controllers
suck, and because I wanted to flip people off in VR which you can only do
(currently) with the Index controllers.

Bootstrapping into this VR setup from zero (minus an adequate computer) these
are the hardware components that compose my setup.

| Item                               | Price (MSRP) (US) |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Valve Index Controllers (knuckles) | 279               |
| Valve Index Base Stations 2.0 (x2) | 300               |
| Bigscreen Beyond                   | 999               |
| [VR Wire II](https://vr-wire.com/) | 60                |

VR Wire II is very optional but I love how it keeps the cable up and away from
my head. You can inspect my [[Workspace]] further to get a feel for my VR space
and wiring setup.

Also you only need one base station, but two works better so you don't lose
tracking if facing away from the station. I assume you don't _only_ want to work
in VR!

OS
---

I thought my Beyond would work with Linux. Unfortunately for NVIDIA (ticker:
NVDA) chads we have a driver problem. The wakeup signal is not sent to the
headset display so while SteamVR works and the HMD is detected, the HMD is
unusable because it's all black inside.

This is the only time I've ever felt that I'd be better off with an AMD card
because they already patched this, though you'll need to patch the kernel
yourself (note: this information may be out of date by the time you read this.
check [this](https://lvra.gitlab.io/docs/hardware/) table for Beyond support in
Linux).

In every other case the NVIDIA (ticker: NVDA) cards are just better. Even on
Linux! It's 2024 bro if you're not talking to your locally hallucinated waifu
whose soul is encoded in a 15.6 GiB file called
`wizard-vicuna-30B-uncensored.ggmlv3.q3_K_M.bin` loaded to VRAM on your 3090
you're not gonna make it, sorry I don't make the rules!

Virtual Desktops
----------------

I did a _lot_ of searching for decent software I can use to actually work in VR.
The choices I found relevant in 2024 for PCVR were:

- [XSOverlay](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1173510/XSOverlay/) / OVR Toolkit
- [Bigscreen Beta](https://store.steampowered.com/app/457550/Bigscreen_Beta/)
- [Virtual Desktop (Classic)](https://store.steampowered.com/app/382110/Virtual_Desktop_Classic/)
- [Desktop+](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1494460/Desktop/)

Virtual Desktop Classic multi-monitor support is jank and I don't think
Bigscreen Beta does multi-monitor well. Both of these are great for
single-monitor applications, like watching anime, movies, videos etc. Bigscreen
Beta allows you to watch these things with friends as well so that's really
cool. I love that the screens in both these applications are applied to model
textures in the virtual world, so you can actually work from a desk with your
monitor view on it or watch movies on a big theater screen. Unfortunately both
of these are limited to just one desktop and I was informed that Virtual Desktop
for PCVR is not getting new features (hence, Classic), just fixes. They are
focused on the standalone version evidently.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigyfkdqqichl5of6n6edw453yovtgblkdmtbabzr3ce3w2yz4abzq" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Working in Virtual Desktop is fine but with only one monitor screen
real estate becomes a scarce resource</figcaption>
</figure>


XSOverlay and OVR Toolkit let you arrange windows and desktops around yourself
in VR. Both these softwares are separate apps that are started from the Steam
menu but these windows stay around you no matter what game or environment you
work from in VR. The windows are not applied to in-world textures as they can be
in Virtual Desktop Classic or Bigscreen Beta, but this does have multi-monitor /
multi-window support. Streamers use XSOverlay to pin their Twitch chat to their
wrist, this is an example of what can be done with it.

Unfortunately I found the lag of XSOverlay desktop capture to be very
distracting. It felt like the overlay refresh was 10 FPS and it made everything
very choppy and unbearable to work in.

Desktop+, while not being a virtual world itself, checked all the boxes I needed
to use my desktops in VR. Like XSOverlay I'm able to arrange windows around
myself in any game. It works by adding a new “desktop” to the SteamVR UI that
you can view using Steam VR's toolbar, and it adds a new toolbar below that you
can use to add new windows. Even though it's only accessible from the SteamVR UI
toolbar thing you can actually pin windows or desktops to your playspace so they
are visible even when the SteamVR menu is closed. I prefer just showing my
desktops when the SteamVR menu is open though.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidf7rsiyda4bxyi5ymnqc5fvwod7se5kfgfb2d2yfrs6xm7vohw5i" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Me working in Desktop+</figcaption>
</figure>

Desktop+ works beautifully. The downside is that it does not work on Linux
because the capture API Proton exposes is not implemented at all, at least
according to a [post from the
dev](https://steamcommunity.com/app/1494460/discussions/1/3807281795242785969/)
from 2023. WixOverlay seems promising at least, I will try it when the Beyond
becomes usable on Linux.

World / Environment
-------------------

There are a number of peaceful VRChat worlds to work from but recently I've been
foregoing VRChat in favor of simply working from the SteamVR dashboard, but when
I do find more worlds I enjoy working in I will update the list below.

I work in invite-only instances but it could be very fun to work in a social
environment during the day too. Sitting in VRChat without full-body tracking
looks weird though so I'd like to wear my trackers too, and those don't have
great vision of the base stations at my desk. Maybe I could build a VR-only desk
with just a mouse and keyboard...
