[[!meta title="Tōkyō 2023"]]

[[!tag Japan]]

<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/three/build/three.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@photo-sphere-viewer/core@5.1.5/index.min.js"></script>

I visited [[Tōkyō]] again in the second full week of June 2023 with a group of
11 friends. Some went to Kyōtō on a day trip, I did not and stayed in the
capital city for the full week. I have been here before when I studied at
[[Sophia_University]] for a semester in the Summer.

I host some of the pictures from this trip [in a
gallery](https://gallery.wesl.ee/gallery/Tokyo23) on a separate site.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreia53edqz7z2wgbpwikpuz2rii5w2xdvam4rqr4ey6qyockrozazba" size=medium]]
<figcaption>
Walking in Akihabara near Tokyo Leisure Land
</figcaption>
</figure>

I loved walking with friends around my favorite city in the world. We did a lot
of stuff, including many tourist-y things I did not do when I lived here such as
actually going up the Skytree and visiting the huge Gundam statue in Odaiba.

Arrival
-------

We landed a bit after noon at Haneda about 18 hours after our plane departed
Raleigh-Durham International Airport, with one stop in Detroit interrupting
those 18 hours. We ate a sad breakfast at Mediterranean grille *Mezza* in the
DTW airport. The catch is that there is no Mediterranean food served before
noon; breakfast meal is pictured below; the below subjects are not actors; they
are real people attempting to enjoy breakfast in an airport.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiaogf6r2e3pdu3nme6srmi3fcpxfc4bd3f7xwrbdoruzbzxxotub4" size=medium]]
</figure>

Interestingly when we arrived the airport fare machine at Haneda was not selling
new IC cards, more on that in a moment. Currency was exchanged, tickets were
bought and I loaded up my PASMO card I still had from my last time here with
some yen which I also kept from then. Considering macroeconomic inflation and
the weakening of the yen against the US dollar since 2018 this was one of my
worst performing investments, but hey, holding 20,000 yen for 5 years was worth
not having to wait in line to exchange currency at the airport. I gave those who
needed cash some money and we were off.

From the airport we took the monorail north, transferring at Hanamatsuchō, and
exiting the train at Ueno station. On the way north I recognized many of the
roads from playing [Shutoko Revival
Project](https://acmods.net/tracks/shutoko-revival-project/) for Assetto Corsa,
not something I noticed my first trip here because I didn't care much for cars
then.

When we needed to interface with people, for example at the hotel or navigating
customs, I was glad to be able to use my [[Japanese]] wherever I could despite
only intaking Japanese casually since the end of 2021. The language skill you
need for everyday conversations is much, much lower than what you need
to learn at a university.

Later that day I accompanied some of us headed to a street festival. One of the
many celebrating the longevity of Tōkyō's shrines, this one took place along a
street in Ueno-okachimachi. That afternoon was slightly rainy but the street was
still quite busy. We visited a 7-11 in Ueno-okachimachi on the way there.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifwffl3onzxbi4e3iwsgvylwe43hqdvz7vpo2v4ifdxi3c37jwfb4" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiadzjz4r7eqptnsm4ibhssj2pwhknh2djbbcnl7hbuwdx77rcteuy" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiffb6v5zg27eofbsex5cugph27wltvpxo5623gy6nzqmt3x4nr5n4" size=medium]]
</figure>

After this Bakesta and I wandered around Ueno and eventually went to try to buy
a PASMO card from the Ueno metro station. Unfortunately sales of anonymous PASMO
passes were temporarily restricted from June 8 2023 onward. We arrived on June 11,
only 3 days after this bullshit started.

We wandered into the train office and asked what the fuck was going on. Luckily
the train office was not closed but filled with office workers and consequently
reeked of tobacco. With regard to public offices I had gotten used to this smell
at the Taitō city ward office. The nice guys in that railway office told us the
best way to get around is to use the phone app. I found out later that Apple is
the only manufacturer who provides the special hardware for interacting with
Japanese IC card readers, and only in their models since 2018. Obviously
Japanese domestic phones have this hardware too but none of us had one. But
considering we were tourists, our best option, they said, was to buy the PASMO
Passport. These IC cards can only be used on railways for 21 days; I have no
idea how the e-money works after 21 days; after that period all fare remaining
on the IC card is forfeit. This proposition seemed reasonable given the
circumstances around unregistered cards so Bakesta got a new PASMO Passport IC
card. Over the next 2 days I bought PASMO Passports for about everyone in our
group because IC cards are strictly better than buying paper tickets. It became
a little joke with the guys behind the counter because they recognized me after
the second time, as you needed everyone physically present who was buying a
pass.

That night we both went to Akihabara and bounced in and out of my favorite arcades.
HEY!, Tōkyō Leisure Land, and the new GiGo arcades that replaced the Sega
buildings (RIP). We were both exhuasted quite early owing to the fact we were
operating on such little sleep so we kicked it back to the hotel near Ueno
station well before the last train that night.

The next morning it was **straight** to [[Yoshinoya]] because fuck it I wanted
that ねぎ玉牛丼. It's not great but goddamn it's quick and it's a savory
breakfast. This was Monday morning so the inside of that Yoshinoya was hectic
with the dawn of a new workweek. After Yoshinoya it was more wandering around
Ueno park.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreia7crfrgdm723nbypgagxtkkw3mgm4leurlpxv44lahvabbyrkwfm" size=medium]]
</figure>
<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreialunjyaxfswqhvpeivolivmcwkl32izpb7x4o5ydbggq2r3xvlky" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidamyljxqvgsugnn6l6tdgthoplckhyb5rvxbcucrk2hlsmpf74py" size=medium]]
</figure>

Then we visited Yasukuni shrine. My fiancé wanted to visit a “big gate” and,
as a consequence of wandering this city for a few months, I knew the biggest
gate here. It's a bit weird to be walking as foreigners around such a
controversial point in Japanese history but I'm not one to pass up the biggest
gate in the city for something like feeling out-of-place.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreid7htyxssgvohqylrrgbjlnbyg7h5e54byzlj227bw5k77x5ikzdi" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifrsp3fgrmfc6asy7hxthxbbxq72435mdshrsileaa4xciztz7uva" size=medium]]
</figure>

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifqdcvapxlg5zmwwkviq4kmajy2l7xh3uvn6cjmdknhkqyz3ifgoa" size=medium]]
<div><video autoplay muted loop controls>
<source src="https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreifwol2nhb5systdombsqoof7c4t2habsnzgqg6jovhi5bbyjc6ory" type="video/mp4">
</video></div>
</figure>

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiezxjqaw6vyzt237cmscxvipas73wwuqy4vfx72eayc6khx2hvtkm" size=medium]]
</figure>

After this a smaller group of us wandered north to Asakusa, my favorite
tourist-y spot in Taitō and conveniently close to our Ueno hotel. We visited
the apartment where I lived for some time too, nobody was as touched by this
small neighborhood as I was.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreied2xtj7necvxgtlxnpbjf6q3bacnmpdnrcyir5x3rq6cqgi6fgqu" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidtl4tk4fx4yorkz454u3g3ying5v2ft5icmgtx5ljl2ikrkfbuda" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigotcpbac7wnqoox2exu7rilyqofekgt7ljhualkksdh5pzoujfoi" size=medium]]
</figure>

We ended that day in Akihabara again, of course, albeit with a larger group of
people than just Bakesta and myself. Things wind down early that night as it's a
Sunday night and by the time we are ready to go only a few shops are open still.

I spend most of the next day buying dōjin at various book shops in Akihabara.
[[Rāmen|Ramen]] at a novel, cheap and crowded joint in Ueno called 花田 “Hanada”
for dinner.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicsycezglb2wqonyatgyc7sfqybvojelj3i3ornqo3y55xo27zqqq" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreib2gqfmyujieu3k2vqvqsvxaeektmfb54atllakyxffgit2yd7sem" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiczatqvm2zxwqdljx6ryrrmamdvfzqr7iv54mbuatbvxj52xhfdqa" size=medium]]
</figure>

Have You Tried the Tuna in Kabukichō?
-------------------------------------------

That night a small group of us ventured all the way out to Shinjuku because I saw
a flyer for a DJ associated with Denonbu/電音部 playing at a new Namco arcade
there. The fact Namco brands its own arcades now is quite novel after SEGA
dumped their arcade locations on GiGo. Anyhow there were no interesting cabinets at this
arcade at all, you could hardly call it an arcade, but the music and atmosphere
was otherworldly.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreih52axl6jvykt4aeibzwpxv3q2vlsi5mlx5tzhetbufq6pz5ke2uy" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreieukwpxbtzwarpktd6kzdg656352hb5ms5ss3tdcl5b2ztytpjcui" size=medium]]
</figure>

That, mind you, is someone filleting a tuna in front of a crowd, while someone
cues music in front of 2 analog decks, 2 CDJs and a mixer. A tuna. I have no
idea what was going on nor, honestly, do I want to know. This was not the DJ we
were looking for however. She was on the third floor (below) in the arcade
proper:

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreida2nor76jjcjudiad4w7q6c5yoj73vfxqk6mlhknenu3nhbyb4h4" size=medium]]
</figure>

The floor was packed. The girls guarding the floor had long ago stopped letting
people onto the dancefloor for free and now the entry price was one drink stub.
This was an atrocity. Bakesta and I went back downstairs and outside to catch
our breath and rest on the steps in front of Kabukichō tower. We sat for a few
minutes. Those minutes felt to me like hours as I became tangled up in the
lives of people living their every day here. The plaza was lively. The people
wandering in front of us were very near our age, give or take a few years. The
people here made up the youngest crowd I'd seen from Tōkyō nightlife. Even
Akihabara was old by comparison.

The girl sitting in front of us with dyed red hair, streaks of brown
peaking from her scalp, industrial piercings through her ears and boots nearly
up to her knees looked up towards the tip of the spire of the APA hotel to our
left. Her voice carried but was blurred amid the echo carried by the plaza
steps. She took a slug from a tall can next to her backpack; I did the same a
few seconds later.

There, Bakesta and I, speaking English loudly among ourselves, stirred the
attention of a pleasant man. He has lived in Japan for something like 13 years,
an American expat. He afforded us sage-like advice for much of the night that we
sat on those steps, not moving except to look up and down and left and right
around the plaza. Then he left as suddenly as he appeared.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreianz7mubjvfwba4jviasvce2o5vr7cxubbgo4dti2twii4nht4j24" size=medium]]
</figure>

We made our way to Shinjuku station to scurry home before the last train that
night as did much of the crowd from Kabukichō.

---

The next day we visit Odaiba. This place was never on my radar; I had not been
before nor ever thought of visiting. Now it seems that's because there's nothing
on that artificial island, formerly a series of defensive positions built in
Tōkyō Bay but expanded in the late 90s to its current form, except for the Fuji
TV headquarters and a massive mall outside which the life-size Rainbow Gundam
is stationed. But away from the mall the view overlooking the Rainbow Bridge is
beautiful. When travelling back we took the Yurikamome train which actually
crosses the Rainbow Bridge, something I didn't know until we were nearly
crossing the river.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihbbexrg5btfkxj3hltawx7sw6jektrivtcy65cw2c2ytxkjtvuzi" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicxeunxcghmmcxpks2puoymmp3v7ktbhsv43utmfoefgekfnq4bf4" size=medium]]
</figure>

Still in Ueno, my fiancé and I lunched the next day at Danki Tonkatsu in
Asakusa. I found this place once years wandering around Asakusa scouting for
tonkatsu shops; neither time I ate here did it disappoint. After this I walked
to Skytree while others took the train. I have fond memories walking along the
Sumida river so I was far from bored on the walk there. I had been to Skytree
just once, during Golden Week. Unfortunately Skytree tickets were sold out at
that time so I just walked around Skytree City and went home. This time we
pre-ordered tickets for both the tower and the aquarium.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidcuw5iemy3f7dhs5qwmyhf64qbhq4g6jtre4v4wb6matd6l7mb6y" size=medium]]
</figure>

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibydxp4dxmm2bwtmy5irhahhj2booxkchuv5lwshqfkwh352bn6km" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibogjxmqd6j5xcpvgkt5rkmpkicmscsy54vtb4gyzapnr4khrokhi" size=medium]]
</figure>

It is amazing that even given how dense this city is it's not hard to pick out
nearby districts given the defining Sumida and a few notable landmarks like
Sensō-ji and Ueno Park. Still it was unfortunately foggy and we could not see
far even to Shinjuku, let alone anywhere close towards Fuji. On clear days
though it is possible to see Fuji from this vantage.

Harajuku
--------

That next day we move hotels from Ueno to a place in Shinjuku; not that being in
Ueno had inhibited us from venturing into Shinjuku but it's more convenient for
everyone in general. It's Friday now and most of this day I spend in Harajuku.

Harajuku is quite busy on the surface with bustling shops and tourists abound.
Trendy young people parade the street dressed in more brands than they could
count on a hand. It's loud, busy, and on this particular friday it's hard to
even find a spot to sit. We scout a crepé shop after getting hungry and nestle
in to enjoy one of the most iconic Harajuku items before wandering off to the
south-east.

Uraharajuku is much quieter than the main thoroughfare of Takeshita-dōri
naturally. Walking around Urahara is like living in a dream; the homes are so
beautiful, the streets wind so mercilessly and one could easily become lost
here. There is a distinct change in elevation as you navigate from any one point
in Uraharajuku to another. There are lazy shops with doors wide open sporting
coats, pants and many items of clothing spaced far apart on the racks. Any item
of clothing in these shops probably costs a good chunk of my bi-weekly salary. I
peek into [Kingly Mask](https://kinglymask.jp/index.html) and buy the unwieldy
clothes I don for the rest of the trip. I highly recommend visiting there and
many of the shops around it in this corner of Harajuku; Kingly Mask in
particular has a wide range of non-binary clothes any person could wear, many
items for sale are simply “small” or “large” sizes. Many of the nearby shops
have a similar vibe.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreicouhfki2otvdbb5k5zu65px44kmvtwjut6ufp5yeg4vm4dofg62u" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiao3a4ahcacpmqonx5i2h2dxtndo67wu5625nyyoohqcjygc2tshy" size=medium]]
</figure>

The architecture is beautiful everywhere around Harajuku, Ura- or not; this and
the liveliness of the district makes Harajuku one of my favorite areas in the
city. The only sushi I indulged of on this trip in was from a conveyor-belt
sushi chain in Harajuku that night. I can only eat so much in a week and I was
not focused on sushi in the slightest though others wanted to try it. One of the
cuter nuances of translation I know of is that many conveyor belt places in
Japan advertise themselves as a “sushi go-round”, which is a very literal
translation of 回転寿司 “kaiten-zushi”.

On our last full day in the city I visit [[Sophia_University]] where I studied
in 2018; this was the only time I'd been in Japan before and the only reason I
know my way around Tōkyō. I visited the on-campus store to buy my mom a
uni-branded shirt, though she already has one from 2018, but as it happens they
were closed this Saturday which I probably should have known already but did not
remember.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreih6ytsodzhcsgrmnahtqiiy7xfc6rkpaflhqysq3z5sazpiwgsavi" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreiagxv24re7divoorbhgbvkhkxjlgplfmgpiyy5b5sfs6ystheqlie" size=medium]]
</figure>

<figure>
<div id="viewer-sophia" style="width: 100vw; height: 60vh;"></div>
<figcaption>Walkway behind Sophia University</figcaption></figure>

From Sophia I head back to Shinjuku and try yakitori at a place called 晴京
“Harukyō” which we found by walking around looking for yakitori shops. I never
had yakitori but my fiancé's insistence persuaded me to try it; it is niche, not
my favorite food I tried abroad but the fact you can see the single chef in a
cute and very tall hat grill everyone's order over charcoal made this worth. I
can't remember the names of the parts of the chicken I indulged in as I didn't
know that chickens actually had such complicated anatomy; but there it was laid
out on a menu before me in a language I barely studied anymore. This was had for
late-lunch; I am sure that dinner is somehow more spectacular and more crowded.

Then I ditch my fiancé and hop on the Chūō-Sōbu at Shinjuku station and blitz
Akihabara on the other side of town with Bakesta.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihlxjcjp5kg4vdlwbbqig3rtzdkhwewwcfpocevlwr2lcugoh576i" size=medium]]
<figcaption>Boy dinner on the sidewalk near the JR Akihabara station</figcaption>
</figure>

I pick up more dōjin from the Melon Books in the basement of the Hey! Arcade and
we generally bounce around Tokyo Leisure Land, Hey! and many of the new GiGo
arcades that inhabit the carcasses of Akihabara's many freshly-killed SEGA
arcades playing Wangan Maxi 6RR, Initial D “The Arcade”, Beatmania IIDX 30
RESIDENT and many other new and fun machines. We enjoy the last Saturday night
in Akihabara scurry back to Shinjuku just in time for karaoke with friends,
having been completely separated from them for all of that afternoon.

Karaoke is karaoke: loud and fun. You are given your own room and permitted to
yell as much as you want, that's almost the point. Unlimited coffee, tea and
soft-drinks and, if you should so choose to buy a group package, endless mixed
drinks too. If there's one regret I had from my first time in Japan it's that I
never did karaoke but I guarantee it's worth it especially if you're with a fun
group of friends.

<figure class=image-square>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigkif6jihcucxikfh5u4rxqwsv2nbcwdwkpvinl4rhxxuqrrvpg6i" size=medium]]
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreid24zushdqycws3mhwxds3yqki7koywmv5laelq2yo6qr2d2vvthe" size=medium]]
</figure>

I will spare posting the videos of us singing here, there are plenty on
[gallery.wesl.ee](https://gallery.wesl.ee/gallery/Tokyo23). If you're looking
for a good introduction to what is Japanese karaoke and how is it different from
at least the American version, check out [this helpful video from
Namasensei](https://youtu.be/1e2JBXGPnuo). I checked and they still do have “Sit
on my Face” as a song choice (above) which I happily belted out. Unlike when
Namasensei was there we were able to order the drinks and food on a dedicated
tablet without needing to pick up the phone! Definitely worth paying for the
飲み放題 “nomihōdai”, unlimited drinks for the duration you are there is
priceless and fun!

Eternal <del>September</del> <ins>Sunday</ins>
----------------------------------------------

We awoke the next day, Sunday morning, and after a long flight home we
returned to US soil at RDU airport, on Sunday night.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreie7ihhvhx2i2hnsyr4i364pzvjlyghwsp6x2oz53maz3xtekcgzqq" size=medium]]
</figure>

<script>
new PhotoSphereViewer.Viewer({
    container: document.querySelector('#viewer-sophia'),
    panorama: 'https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreiccip4ql3atw3oekb3cldk2v3u6ipds54kghkpza2ryrfumonbtzm',
    navbar: true,
});
</script>
