[[!tag Virtual_Reality]]

VR is a hobby I only got into recently. A coworker let me borrow an Oculus Quest
(1) in Summer, 2020 for a few weeks and I was completely enamored. Though I did
not play a lot of games before VR (the most I ever invested into a series was
Pokémon Snap for the Nintendo 64) those first few weeks I was playing all sorts
of different games and genres. A few months later once Quest 2 was announced I
bought the headset outright and never looked back.

<figure>
<video width="300" autoplay muted loop controls>
<source src="https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreicixkisdlsavr3tsfs7leb4t6thkwbu2e7hpnex4q2olxf4wgdps4" type="video/mp4">
</video>
<figcaption>Playing Rez Infinite with my Quest 1 HMD</figcaption>
</figure>

On my Quest you can bootleg games into the HMD itself (the Quest is meant to be
a standalone platform anyhow) and people have modded classic games like Doom and
Half-Life 1 to be playable on the Quest. In particular, I played [Dr. Beef's
Lambda 1 VR](https://www.lambda1vr.com/) mod for Half-Life 1 all the way
through. This was the first game I'd ever played on a headset and, to say the
least, it set me up to deal with sim sickness extremely well. The game is
jarring to play in VR, especially if you've played in on desktop before like I
had, because you're immediately transported into and immersed in all these
familiar rooms, surrounded by scientists and security officers and fast-moving
HECU enemies... around every corner it seems is some zombie ready to scare the
hell out of you; because the game was meant to spook desktop players being in
a close-quarters encounter with these hideous enemies and aliens is absolutely
terrifying.

The physics of HL:1 are probably the most likely to induce motion-sickness of
any game I've ever played in VR. From the falling and jumping to the puzzles and
weapon physics, this game is not very friendly to beginners in VR but somehow I
was able to make it all the way through the story. I remember in vivid detail
being launched up into the air by a fan and falling over on my side in my living
room in real life. I have not yet played Half Life: Blue Shift or Opposing Force
but they are also supposedly playable in this mod as well and I look forward to
that opportunity to play with this game some more.

Another game I gravitated towards immediately was BallisticNG, a futuristic
zero-g racing sim in the style of WipEout, another title from my childhood which
I played on my N64. Though you *can* play BNG purely on desktop, being immersed
in the cockpit of the vehicle and watching every turn fly by and the enemy ships
slipping through the air around you is a mesmerizing sensation. Not to mention
that everything is coming at you at several hundred kilometers per hour. It's an
insanely fun, extremely fast game that feels, especially in VR, like a more
immersive WipEout HD. I'm not nearly as good at BNG as I am at WipEout (maybe
the bar in HD is lower) but this game is so so much fun at any skill level.

I'll also call out Garry's Mod, a game over 15 years old and not designed with
VR in mind at all. Recently (around 2019 I think) a mod for Garry's Mod was
developed by Catse called
[VRMod](https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=1678408548) and
it's the most perfect thing we will get until Garry's Mod in Source 2.
Essentially it adds VR capability into GMod, allowing a sandbox player to wear a
headset and manipulate the world around them using typical Garry's Mod weapons
and tools. This is one of the most impressive mods for Garry's Mod and it is a
mod I often cite when arguing that games with a healthy modding ecosystem and
receptive development teams often produce the most novel and amazing
experiences, far beyond what the game ever intended to achieve in the first
place. Hell, you can even play Half Life: 2 in Garry's Mod, and with VRMod you
can even play all that in VR!

I anticipate that a VR-only game which offers extensibility and modding tools
like those offered in GMod will produce really amazing things; there is
almost no limit to what you can do in Garry's Mod and VRMod really showcases
that freedom to extend and build on the original game.

[... more stuff to come here]
