[[!meta title="Energy Drink Review — Vitaminwater Energy Tropical Citrus"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

Vitaminwater is one of those brands I typically ignore, along with all other
"health" branded drinks, because I normally get my [daily
dose](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ) of vitamins and minerals from
my diet.

But this isn't just normal Vitaminwater though. And it's not really an energy
drink either, but it _does_ have 60mg of caffeine and has _energy_ in the title.
This flavor, Energy Tropical Citrus has been on shelves since at least 2002[^1].
Some sources I've seen list the caffeine content at 50mg but the bottle I have
in my hands says 60mg. They probably adjusted it some time between release and
now. Not that a difference of 10mg is perceptible, but it does push the drink to
being equivalent to about half a 12oz [[Red_Bull]].

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreidhenz7qjqgwsbh735vucai5wcadjbl7co32m2v7p3ec5q2kp37du" size=medium]]
</figure>

This drink is very easy to drink and very inoffensive. Tastes like water with a distant echo
of orange citrus. Somewhat bitter. If this marketed as an energy drink, I'd be
upset, because it's none of the things energy drinks are, even the
non-carbonated ones. But, as a drink that happens to have caffeine, it's
pleasant, cheap, and does have some sugar but not too much.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreienm33kkpl6xmj7uljnauzjyjbojeue3poaexsi5oyyp53kll4lf4" size=medium]]
<figcaption>50 Cent drinking his branded Formula 50 Vitaminwater.
</figure>

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 20 floz |
| Calories | 100cal |
| Carbohydrates | 27g |
| Caffeine | 60mg |

[^1]: [This LA Times article from late '02](https://www.latimes.com/archives/la-xpm-2002-dec-25-fo-cocktail25-story.html)
