Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3DX+ is the final game Bandai Namco (then Namco Bandai)
produced for the Wangan Midnight Maximum Tune 3 arcade cabinets. Maxi 3DX+ as
it's affectionately known was released in Japan on March 4, 2010, and
internationally later that year.

The game itself is based on the Wangan Midnight manga from 1990, itself based on
real-life a group called Mid Night Racing Team, an extremely notorious and
shadowy group of tuners and racers that prowled the [[!wikipedia
Shuto_Expressway]] from 1989 onwards in Tōkyō.

I'm not sure if this particular video is of Mid Night but it shows what people
were doing on the C1 back then.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/I-6fX2Vhr6Y?si=iP8M097XNmNd_XO_" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Wangan Midnight is a manga, anime and later a game based on this legend. The
Wangan Maximum Tune 3DX+ (and 3DX, and 3) cabinet uses the [[!wikipedia
Namco_System_N2]] with these specs (shamelessly lifted from Wikipedia, the world
encyclopedia):

    Motherboard: MSI K7N2GM-IL (NVIDIA nForce2 Chipset, Custom BIOS) (Japan/Asia) / ASUS M2N-MX (Export, Standard BIOS)
    CPU: AMD K7 Mobile Athlon XP 2800+ at 2.13 GHz (Socket A/462) [3] (Japan/Asia) / AMD Athlon 64 3500+ at 2.2 GHz (Socket 939) [4] (Export)
    RAM: 1×1GB / 2×1GB DDR 400 MHz 3200 MB/s
    GPU: NVIDIA GeForce 4 series / GeForce 7600 GS AGP with 256/512MB GDDR2 memory (GeForce 7800 GS AGP for some japan region maximum tune N2s)
    Output: 1 DVI port, 1 VGA port, 1 S-Video port
    Storage: Seagate 80GB (Japan/Asia) / WD 80GB PATA IDE HDD (Export)
    Operating System: Linux 32-bit (Debian based)
    Sound: stereo RCA output from front panel audio with external AMP PCB (Audio duplicated to rear speakers by amp)
    Protection: HASP HL Max/RTC USB dongle (v0.06)

Maximum Tune 2 and Maximum Tune 1 cabinets used the Sega Chihiro platform. The OG Wangan
Midnight game, which lacked the "Maximum Tune" title, used the Namco 246.

I've played on two 3DX+ cabinets, one English and one Japanese. This game was the last Maximum Tune game to be released outside of Asia until Maximum Tune
5 in 2017. Cards issued from
the Japanese version are not usable on the international cabinets, and vice-versa.
Below is a picture of the Japanese Maxi 3DX+ cabinet I've played on:

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreifbuppnakfpb5zfkyqrff23odraqbkcc7mhmvo6iioay22exmsmx4" size=medium]]
</figure>

Maxi 3 cabinets have a card reader-writer which records player data on a magnetic stripe
card which can be purchased from the machine for an additional credit. After 3DX+ the magnetic
card was replaced by the Banapassport. Below is my card from 3DX+ (JP):

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreih4eszrdeoflx6gjlng3le77vhxbytq4n4p5qwqkpm35hxlrjzxey" size=medium]]
</figure>

Sadly there are very few Maxi 3DX+ cabinets in existence and fewer whose card
readers work. Before the 3DX+ machines near me disappeared I brought my
Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution VI GSR (above) up to 640HP on the JP cabinet and had
raised my Skyline GT-R to 470HP on the EN cabinet.

This JP 3DX+ cabinet was in a
[barcade](https://zenius-i-vanisher.com/v5.2/arcade.php?id=4020) for whatever
reason while the EN version was in a [Namco arcade in a tiny
mall](https://zenius-i-vanisher.com/v5.2/arcade.php?id=3834) near a small
engineering firm I interned at for about 6 months. Neither machine exists
anymore, at least at the places above.

There are 100 chapters in 3DX+, they all mostly have the same structure of
racing against characters on the Shuto Expressway. After beating chapters
upgrades to either the power or handling upgrades of the car are unlocked. The
cabinets are also locally networked, meaning players can challenge others
sitting at adjacent cabinets in "VS" mode. The winner continues playing for
free, effectively taking the loser's credit.