[[!tag Aesthetics]]

The days of your mom dressing you are (hopefully) long-gone. What you wear is
self-expression. If you're conforming to the expectations of others because
you're worried what they'll think then you'll only live up to their stereotype.

I follow a policy of *wear whatever* especially at home where I keep it a
consistent 71°F; obviously my outfit outside changes with the temperature
outside. But as long as I'm comfy I generally wear whatever. Crop-tops +
sweatpants? Of course. Skirts and knee-length socks? Sometimes. Baggy XXL
clothes I bought from Goodwill? Any day. If it's something I feel good in then
it's on the table.

Crop-tops + sweatpants were my fave when it was warmer; now that it's turned
cold I've pulled out this long green maxi skirt that can be unzipped to three
different lengths; since the longest length drags along the ground I only wear
this section at home so I don't get it dirty; I feel like a warlock in robes
with it on.

For me, the clothes I feel the best in are the ones I think I look the best in.
Because I don't have *fuck-huge* arms yet I don't wear tank-tops often. I like
how way my chest looks but not all the time so I don't wear anything with a deep
cut. But somehow, despite bulking something like 20lbs, I'm still at 8% body-fat
so my stummy looks decently lean which is why I'm fine with tops that show off
my midriff.

Some people throw around this feel-good *you can wear anything because fashion
should be inclusive and accessible to everyone* notion; I don't agree with this
exactly; what you wear reflects you; therefore, dress yourself as how you want
to be seen. If you don't care about this then sure, wear absolutely anything you
can find that you feel comfy in. There are no reductionist *one-size-fits-all*
philosophies in my view and that extends to clothing also.

I look up to those who cultivate their own [[Discover/Aesthetics]].
