[[!meta title="Why It's Easier Than Ever To Be Better Than Average"]]

I am an optimist. I am positive about the human condition. I believe we live in
the [[!wikiepdia Best_of_all_possible_worlds]]. And I don't believe there has
ever been a better time to be alive than now.

In the same breath, it's hard to ignore that the same technological progress
which has brought us modern miracles like medicine, increased agricultural
productivity, and global communication also non-negotiably renders unto us
forces which can corrupt and which can be used to corrupt. Presently this is
being weaponized, unintentionally but transcendental from its design, by tech
companies to monetize your attention.

The redpill people never mention when bemoaning tech is that it's always been
like this. And the only thing that's different this time is that the system's
become ruthlessly efficient, more efficient with each iteration.

---

At different points in history, radio, television, video games, and the Internet
were all subjects of the concern of the potential to corrupt, both youth and
adults alike.

In 1976, a man coined the phrase "couch potato" to refer to people who spend
time lazing on their couch watching television. Television was _not_ one of the
first things people considered "mind-numbing", but the first that is still
relatable to a modern audience. As an example, people used to call _pulp
fiction_ and _dime novels_ mind-numbing too. I'm not old enough to remember a
time when reading was ever frowned upon.

Continuing, video games, especially in the wake of Columbine but also before to
a lesser extent, were criticized for their depictions of realistic violence and
for their potential to blur the lines between the video game world and the real
world. They say people get sucked into these games and that they would devote
almost all their waking hours to gaming and exploring these virtual worlds, so
disjoint from ours, and ultimately shutting themselves out of society. They'd
become anti-social, outcasts, and lose touch with what was real and what was
not.

The panic around the Internet was similar to that around video games: the media
published fantastic stories of people becoming so far absorbed in the Internet
that their chatroom persona became their whole self; their entire existence was
online, and they, the media cautioned, were victims of technology that had
become so addictive that they could not be helped or blamed, but that it was
just a shame people spent so much time chatting Online.

<figure>
<video width=492 height=360 controls>
<source src="https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreihd6qord7ur6kk2svpkd573zswvqvaeoij4nnro5jaov3fk4qrmqm"/>
</video>
<figcaption>Snippet from Futurequest (1994)</figcaption>
</figure>

In each of these cases, the claims are outlandish, but based on fact. People
_did_ actually watch too much television. People _did_ actually play games for
days on end. People _did_ actually spend long nights online. And people still
do. This time it's different but it's still all the same.

---

The average American spends 4 hours and 43 minutes[^1] staring at their phone.
Over a week, this amounts to **more than a full day**. If you find this
surprising, consider that this is just the _average American_; half of Americans
spend more time than _just_ 4 hours and 43 minutes.

<figure>
<video width=492 height=360 controls>
<source src="https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreigqasjvb4fhm6o2hyt2damjlobj3hwbbjrw56rcav5qavsgn54tkm"/>
</video>
<figcaption>
<em>Think of how stupid the average person is and then realize half
of em are stupider than that</em>
</figcaption>
</figure>

What is the average person doing on their phone? Messaging. YouTube. Facebook.
TikTok. News sometimes. The phone provides entertainment. The phone staves off
[[Boredom]].

When you put your phone down next, ask yourself: what did I just read? Summarize
the information mentally. I often can't remember what I just looked at. I'm not
immune. Like most people, I recognize that I am overly attached to my phone, and
that it's draining energy. I've taken measures to reduce how fun it is by
logging out of Xitter, which I idly scrolled for years just to look at pretty
art.

The amount of time I've stared at this box is interesting, but not concerning.
In fact, it's a blessing. Many people are wasting a whole-ass day a week
scrolling YouTube Shorts, or TikTok, or Instagram Reels. Messaging friends is
forgiven. All else, it's probably just wasted.

The fact that the average person can reclaim a whole day a week is an amazing
thing. And while it's sad that people get sucked into this digital sinkhole,
considering companies have a financial incentive, even a financial obligation to
shareholders, to make content more addictive and more tailored than ever in
order to grow their bottomline, it is not surprising at all that this is a
problem. It is inherent in the design of the system. For a free market I don't
believe there is a solution above the individual level. That's you, you're the
individual!

Once you understand this is inherent, that there is no solution, that this has
been a problem since forever ago and that also it's only gotten more ruthless
and more efficient over time, you understand why It's Never Been Easier To Be Better
Than Average.

Use the technology as a tool. Don't let it use you.

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreihtl3rerhdzazdlqkl5b4kbkmtmb6y7oluv4xoy6taeh6malem2qi" size=medium]]
</figure>

And you may think I'm going to transition into saying: "you should do something
productive instead of staring at your phone." I'm not, because fuck that. But
maybe you can do something that makes you happier instead? Or maybe you could do
nothing at all? I've found that many interesting things can happen when you let
yourself be [[bored|Boredom]].

Lie on your back. Stare at a wall. Did you know there is a [rich tradition of
staring at the ground or a wall for minutes, maybe hours a
day](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meditation)? What do they see that we don't?

In my freed time I've discovered passion for things I never would have thought
myself capable of doing: I've been able to keep at things I found frustrating
and uncomfortable for long enough that those tasks have become enjoyable.
[[Drawing]] for me has become the activity I point to the most when I talk about
this. Prior, art was impenetrable. Now I recognize that thinking to be part of a
[[False_Dichotomy]], only existing in my head and that of others.

[^1]: [According to Priori Data](https://prioridata.com/data/smartphone-usage-statistics/),
      4051 person survey conducted July 2024
