[[!meta title="Wikipedia, The Social Encyclopedia"]]

*While you are reading this I invite you to [listen to
Wikipedia](http://listen.hatnote.com/).*

*If you are short on time you can [skip right to the
end](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:The_end_of_Wikipedia)*

Almost everyone knows what Wikipedia, the Free Encyclopedia, is. Not many know
about the people who write and edit articles on Wikipedia. The Wikipedia
community is fascinating and diverse. Editors have no incentive to contribute to
articles. The warm and fuzzy feelings it may inspire contributing to the largest
online encyclopedia must be enough.

I'll begin on the shallow side of the pool, with the gateway through which most
are introduced to the Wikipedia community, article Talk pages.

Consider this article on [[!wikipedia List_of_Round_Barns]]. Think of the
deliberate effort it takes to research, create and maintain an article about as
niche a subject as round barns. This is not just an individual effort either.
Once the article is written, others may edit its contents and improve its
accuracy. This is the magic of online Wikis. Note the "Wiki" and not "Wikipedia"
because [[!wikipedia Wikipedia:Don't_abbreviate_"Wikipedia"_as_"Wiki"!]].
Editors on Wikipedia coordinate with fellow editors on article [[!wikipedia
Help:Talk_Pages]]. Talk pages are for serious discussion. Just look at
[[!wikipedia Talk:Kombucha]].

WikiFauna
---------

While talk pages are always _about the article_ most of the time they are rather
boring. Real Wikipedians maintain a user page and write whatever they want
there. Here is one I just found, [[!wikipedia User:AFirefoxUser]], just clicking
around. Like with this [[Personal_Wiki]] you can find a lot of things just
clicking around.

Wikipedians can be divided into categories of [[!wikipedia
Wikipedia:WikiFauna]] and further categorized by [[!wikipedia
Wikipedia:Seven_Ages_of_Wikipedians]]. So, pick your favorite fauna, be it
WikiBarbarian or
[WikiCat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedian_WikiCats) or even a
[WikiCryptid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:WikiFauna#WikiCryptids). A
[[!wikipedia Wikipedia:WikiPuppy]] may find kindred spirits investigating the
[[!wikipedia Wikipedia:Puppy_Cabal]]; non-WikiPuppies may be interested in the
regular, normal [[!wikipedia Wikipedia:List_of_cabals]].

User Boxes
----------

User pages need to have userboxes. Some do not, but most do, and those without
are not nationally recognized by other Wikipedians, most importantly by those
with userboxes. Userboxes look like this:

<table class="no-border">
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-nos.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-happy.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-vaporwave.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-mortal.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
<tr><td class="no-border">[[!template id="userbox-foodlion.tmpl"]]</td></tr>
</table>

My userboxes are at [[Me]]. WikiFauna can find their own userboxes of
[[!wikipedia Wikipedia:Userboxes/Wikipedia/WikiFauna]]. Examples of user pages
which make appropriate use of userboxes are:

- [[!wikipedia User:BEEFITRON]]
- [[!wikipedia User:Mr._UnderhiIl]]
- [[!wikipedia User:Divotdefer]]
- [[!wikipedia User:Alucard_16]]
- [[!wikipedia User:CrafterNova]]

For those who like userboxes there are [[!wikipedia
Category:User_templates_about_userboxes]]. A collation of userboxes can be found
in [[!wikipedia Wikipedia:Userboxes/Galleries]] but userboxes can exist outside
of galleries. The perfect one (or, perfect 100) is hiding out there, you just
need to find it!

Userboxes are amazingly extensible things, derived from wikipedia templates,
which can show things like [[!wikipedia
User:Stage7/Japan_adjacent_railway_stations]]. 

Wikipe-tan
----------

Yeah it's an article about Wikipedia of course it has to mention [[!wikipedia
Wikipedia:Wikipe-tan]] the cutest mascot of The Free Encyclopedia!

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreia5q5d74lqqlhlqker4wxanxxhogkawkafhuh4kykrcmgdlkhi7te" size=medium]]
</figure>

[[!template id="bsky-comments.tmpl" uri="https://bsky.app/profile/wesl.ee/post/3lqjowgolg224"]]
