[[!meta title="Energy Drink — Wild Tiger"]]
[[!tag Energy_Drink Review]]

I know about Wild Tiger for the same reason I know about [[Rip
It|Rip_It_Citrus_X]]: Wild Tiger found the same niche keeping young servicemen
deployed to the Middle East, especially Iraq, awake and alert during the
[[!wikiepdia War_on_Terror]].

<figure><video>
<source src="https://web.hooya.wesl.ee/cid-content/bafkreidfidm5dngedcs5eaqnidwwcp5liyv3ihuriyjimgxr2ecehmdk2q"/>
<figcaption><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YjChAEHPGV0">MTV Cribs IRAQ</a>
</video></figure>

Wild Tiger is produced in Amman, Jordan. The case I picked up is distributed in
the US by [Atlas Import and Exports](https://atlasie.com/) and weirdly the can
is entirely in English, which makes me wonder how the Jordanian cans look. On
the front is a Tiger with its legs stretched out and the words "TOTAL
ACTIVATION". On the back are the words: "Wild Tiger is suitable for all
professions: it increases physical endurance, improves concentration, reaction
speed and stimulates metabolism."

<figure>
[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreieq2nxvcjzz2zswgsa22vksgnqmq6t4pkxsptck6jejdbkgt5qfsu" size=medium]]
</figure>

Wild Tiger tastes like [[Red_Bull]] but it lacks the harsh metallic note, and it
is sweeter than Red Bull, which can taste dry in comparison. It is closer in
taste to the Thai Red Bull, Krating Daeng. It is smooth and easy to drink. I
know because I ordered a case of 24. On the finish it tastes subtly like oranges
or grapefruits. The taste is perfectly balanced, not too sugary nor too bitter.
It's damn good.

| | Amount |
| --- | --- |
| Volume | 8.3 floz |
| Calories | 125cal |
| Caffeine | 75mg |
