[[!tag Japan Diary]]

Hello diary. I'm listening to _Threads_ by _Now, Now_. A nice way to relax after
a long day. I'm spending some time in Japan.

[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreibfebczsduwfhvk4onejro6k3bshy64js2xxafdpilxqwjrcgqblm" size=medium]]

A few days ago I took the bullet train. I didn't do anything on the train. I
actually had a great time doing nothing. Purposefully, I have the dumbest and
slowest phone possible so I spend more moments like this. That has been my
recent solution to rediscovering [[Boredom]]. Two hours staring out the window
at the gentle rolling rushing beautiful countryside is priceless time.

Earlier in the day, which was my first full day here, I got rained on. Lightly,
but still, my morning was spent slightly damp walking around _Chidorigafuchi_
park. The cherry blossoms will bloom very soon. When that happens the country
will be drenched in pink falling petals. But this morning the flowers in
_Chidorigafuchi_ had not even bloomed. The brown-black trees traced the shape of
a cozy roof over the park. The limbs vaguely protected me from rain. I lingered
for some time.

[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreid2ec3xzptjduffzhsvc2237pzrxwyx74rycivqkym5okiwgsse7e" size=medium]]

This little park is special to me. It's where I spent my first full day after
arriving in Japan to study at [[Sophia_University]]. It was the same time of
year, late March, 8 years ago. Even though official registration for Sophia was
in early April I decided to arrive early so I had time to relax and explore
Tōkyō, which placed me here in this park in late March. I hadn't expected the
cherry blossoms nor the accompanying festival in _Chidorigafuchi_. Those few
days in Chiyoda were deeply moving. Today, too, was moving in a bit of a
different way.

In many ways I feel so far removed from who I was 8 years ago. Especially the
circumstances: I was in college, single, and about to spend a full semester
studying abroad in a country whose language I'd been studying independently
since I'd matriculated. Wasting a day doing absolutely nothing in Japan was
literally just a Tuesday for me. It's different today. There is leisure time for
me here but no class to look forward to. No train to catch. No groceries to buy.
I'm just passing through.

Eight years ago, living in Japan was a real possibility. I could drop everything
post-graduation and move here and work as the token foreigner in a mostly
Japanese office. Even if forever a card-carrying _gaijin_ in Japan, I did at
least have that opportunity should I choose to pursue it.

Today, things are different. I have a loving husband and a very cute dog. When I
leave home, the dog has to stay with someone for that amount of time. Sometime
in the next few years we'll have children and you can't exactly hand them off to
someone for a few weeks like you can with a poodle. I don't regret any minute of
the life I've lived in the span of these 8 years. But I do mourn that now, at
the end of them, the mystery and wonder has evaporated. I know how it ends.

For that reason I can't help but feel a little sad when I visit _Chidorigafuchi_
park.

[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreigqzpfwpg5ovvcnyif6i2mm4efbqwadcxswwdv7vndjeqreznojl4" size=medium]]

This week is my first time in Kyōto and even though I've only been here a couple
days it's already detectably very different from Tōkyō. There are
mountains in three cardinal directions bordering the city. The subway here is
strictly worse than Tōkyō (sorry!). The bus is almost a necessary mode of
transport if you're not taking a car or cab. There's far more castles and ruins.
They use a different IC card.

Today I visited Nijō Castle. It is a tidy castle built by Tokugawa Ieyasu. He
was the first shogun and the great unifier of Japan. He ended the Warring States
period. Until the Meiji Restoration, Japan enjoyed an era of peace under a
shogun-emperor duality.

We visited Nijō in the morning and went to a nice restaurant for lunch.
Teppenyaki wagyu. I've never had a teppenyaki dinner before where the chef
hasn't done the funny trick with the mustard bottle. Real teppenyaki is nothing
special.

To close out the day I dropped in to the Lashinbang and bought this:

[[!template id="hooya-img.tmpl" cid="bafkreie6oarnze5xsqno5rf5z3dccco5gfjv5s7emvacbd3gohqtitvdsq" size=medium]]

You can never go home again. But it's beautiful to visit.
