N.C. State Unviersity is in Raleigh, North Carolina and is chiefly an
engineering and agriculture school, though there are many different and diverse
colleges within the university.

I graduated from here in May 2020 with a B.S. in Computer Engineering as well as
a B.S. in Electrical Engineering. I also picked up a minor in Mathematics along
the way, as I took math classes every semester or so to break up my engineering
workload and keep from burning out completely. I went here for a little under 5
years, starting in August 2015 and graduating in May 2020.

Along the way I made a lot of friends, meeting through various clubs like the
Philosophy Club and the Linux User Group, and through my classes and by way of
existing friends. I also created / cultivated several communities around the
university myself, uniting people who otherwise likely would've never met and
enjoyed that different perspective. It's amazing how siloed you can become once
you're locked-in for your major after your first year, especially in
engineering.

Old College Try
---------------

Before I matriculated into university in Raleigh, I lived in rural North
Carolina with my parents, attending a high-school which was adjacent to no less
than 3 different farms in an equally rural part of the county. I didn't really
do much because classes were so easy I didn't really need to try. I started
learning C and x86 outside of school around the age of 15, and about one
semester before I left my high-school behind I developed a healthy reading
habit, inhaling War and Peace along with all the old, dusty books I could get my
hands on. It was around this time that I also started keeping a diary because
that seemed like the only way to vent any emotion for a boy who feels
kinda-out-of-place in the middle of nowhere.

I was always very comfortable living on my own. From my experiences camping with
the Boy Scouts (which I was in until I acheived my Eagle and turned 18) I had
become accustomed to spending days and nights away from "home" in some strange
wilderness so the transition into the college / dorm life was very smooth. Actually I
was very glad to be away from "home" because there were new people all around me
and brand new things to do and explore. Raleigh is also a beautiful city full of
interesting people  and I'd never lived somewhere so pleasant before so I was
very comfortable during this oft-tumultuous time.

My first-year classes were extremely easy and I got the hang of the
class-homework-study-test cycle in just a month or two. Eventually, though, I
got pretty complacent because this stuff was so easy and I'd learned a lot of
this in my spare time. From my sophomore year on things were a little harder ( ・ω・)
but I enjoyed many of these courses and took a lot from them, especially my ASIC
/ FPGA classes, because those were a perfect blend (for me) of hardware and
software engineering. Power engineering was of interest to me as well (I worked
for a bit as a substation design consultant during my off-season from
university) but I ultimately forfeit that opportunity to do what I do now in a
more fast-paced field.

Year | Term   | Course  | Description
-----|--------|---------|------------
2015 | Summer | EC201   | Principles of Microeconomics
2015 | Summer | MA241   | Calculus II
2015 | Fall   | E101    | Introduction to Engineering
2015 | Fall   | E115    | Introduction to Computing Environments
2015 | Fall   | ENG101  | Academic Writing and Research
2015 | Fall   | MA242   | Calculus III
2015 | Fall   | PHI210  | Representation, Reason, Reality
2015 | Fall   | USP110  | Scholars Forum
2015 | Fall   | HEST266 | Ultimate Frisbee
2016 | Spring | CSC226  | Discrete Math CSC
2016 | Spring | ECE109  | Introduction to Computer Systems
2016 | Spring | MA341   | Applied Differential Equations I
2016 | Spring | PSY200  | Introduction to Psychology
2016 | Spring | PY205   | Physics for Engineers I
2016 | Spring | PY206   | Physics for Engineers I Lab
2016 | Spring | USP111  | HSS Scholars Forum
2016 | Summer | COM110  | Public Speaking
2016 | Summer | HESF107 | Run Conditioning
2016 | Summer | MA225   | Foundations of Advanced Mathematics
2016 | Fall   | ECE200  | Introduction to Signals, Circuits, & Systems
2016 | Fall   | ECE209  | Computer System Programming
2016 | Fall   | MA405   | Linear Algebra
2016 | Fall   | PY208   | Physics for Engineers II
2016 | Fall   | PY209   | Physics for Engineers II Lab
2016 | Fall   | USP110  | Scholars Forum
2017 | Spring | ECE211  | Electric Circuits
2017 | Spring | ECE212  | Fundamentals of Logic Design
2017 | Spring | ECE309  | Object-oriented Programming for ECE
2017 | Spring | ST371   | Introduction to Probability and Distribution Theory
2017 | Fall   | ECE301  | Linear Systems
2017 | Fall   | ECE302  | Microelectronics
2017 | Fall   | ENG331  | Communication for Engineering and Technology
2017 | Fall   | MA408   | Foundations of Euclidean Geometry
2018 | Fall   | ECE301  | Linear Systems
2018 | Fall   | ECE303  | Electromagnetic Fields
2018 | Fall   | ECE306  | [Introduction to Embedded Systems](https://wesleycoakley.com/Projects/my-embedded-ncsu-ece306-project.html)
2018 | Fall   | ECE381  | Engineering Profession CPE
2018 | Fall   | ECE492  | Operating Systems Design
2018 | Fall   | ENG265  | American Literature
2019 | Spring | E490    | FE Exam Prep
2019 | Spring | ECE305  | Principles of Electromechanical Energy Conversion
2019 | Spring | ECE310  | Design of Complex Digital Systems
2019 | Spring | ECE463  | Microarchitecture
2019 | Spring | ECE484  | [Senior Design Project I](https://wesleycoakley.com/Projects/my-senior-design-project-ncsu-ece484-ece485.html)
2019 | Fall   | ECE434  | Fundamentals of Power Electronics
2019 | Fall   | ECE451  | Power System Analysis
2019 | Fall   | ECE464  | ASIC and FPGA Design
2019 | Fall   | ECE485  | [Senior Design Project II](https://wesleycoakley.com/Projects/my-senior-design-project-ncsu-ece484-ece485.html)
2019 | Fall   | PHI331  | Philosophy of Language
2020 | Spring | ECE407  | Introduction to Computer Networking
2020 | Spring | ECE453  | Electric Motor Drives
2020 | Spring | MA410   | Theory of Numbers
2020 | Spring | MIE201  | Introduction to Business Processes

While attending university [I also passed the
FE](https://account.ncees.org/rn/2003059-1188920-c0ff505) (fundamentals of
engineering) exam, meaning I qualify to take the PE (Professional Engineer) exam
should I ever want to become a certified honest-to-God Professional Engineer.
Being a PE means a lot in other fields (notably, for me, if I decided to go back
and work as an electrical engineer) but having a PE in my current field would be
rather meaningless. Still, it is nice to have that option, I've learned that
keeping doors open and cultivating your opportunities is one of the keys to
finding room to do the things you love.


Study Abroad in Tōkyō, Japan
----------------------------

In the Spring of 2018 I made one of the best decisions ever I've ever made to
study at [[Sophia_University]] in Tōkyō, Japan. This was really a life-changing
experience and it instilled within me the desire to do things and see things
much larger than myself. Just getting over there was one of my goals from the
start of my college career, and closing in and making good on that promise to
myself was extremely formative to my goal-setting habits today. In fact, I'd
been studying Japanese by myself since my Freshman year, and this cemented the
idea that I am both capable of learning independently (and at a decent pace) and
of bringing my hopes and dreams into my reality.

While abroad I had the opportunity to travel around Japan, particularly during
Golden Week. Even while I was not travelling, though, there was plenty to do in
just Tōkyo, it is an absolutely massive city full of different and unique little
towns. Just simply living, breathing, eating and drinking in this foreign
lifestyle every single day for a semester was Nirvana and I would never trade
this experience for another.


